[Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome to episode 29. 90 of the ask show. I hope you're all doing great. Let's see who all is there on the live chat. Let's see who is there. The world teach you the world teacher Jagat Guru Swami Veanandanda Abhuda Singh Dave Ashwini Swami Jane Suas Chundra random skull makan abhuda Singh Mr. Jam Vikas PJ geopolitical dubet IMAT tested beneath freedom from outcome from Canada Vladimir Putin Ram Ojas Kumar Vun Pajati Rayan NC Penguin Danish Kajura Orbit and Markets Nan Dish Anand Singh Kedar Pab RPL Indian-American Tanmoy Chakraorti Mr. Jam Dave Geopolitical once again from Indor Sumit D Ram Shukla Vin Divor Singh Pranam Vikrant M9 Daksh Rayan Arindam Das Raav Aurora Separ from Bangalore Shiva Balaji Shre Singh Raat Shanks all right subat shukla hello Anka G good evening Herman Manuin hi. Beneath is saying hi from Antarctica. Aayush Singh Abi Chandel 005. Harley Diddi Sun. Well, interesting name. Gautam Sonat Ojasit Kumar Saiyi Kitchen. Okay. Uh Swami Jan from Jaipur. Rdra Kumal Vun Nova Random Shorts. Imbred Hacker. Okay. Really interesting name. Samir Kachu. Namaskar. So Jata Saha from Singapore. Good evening ma'am. Ramachandra Vidad. Namaste G. Himman Shusain. Oo. Okay. All right. Okay. So let's take questions. Let's take some questions. What questions do we have? We already have some super chats who already waiting for me before I even started. Let's go with those. Ash says, okay, first of all a reminder to everyone. I will only take geopolitics questions today. Just putting it out there. Let's not discuss other things today. So Ashotosh says, given the massive hard power differential, are we destined to become a vasal state of the US or do you believe India can truly rise to the occasion and push through the sweeping sweeping reforms needed? Is India destined to be to become a vasal state of the US? Well, that's what the US wants. The US is trying everything in its power to make India a vasal state. And that's see right now on the geopolitical chess board India is the biggest piece that's up for grabs. Okay. And the US wants it. Obviously the Chinese are not in a position to vasalize India. Russia has never vasalized India or tried to vasalize India. The US wants to vasalize India. And the best way to do that is to apply all kinds of pressure on India. Immense pressure from various directions. Create a fence of thorns around India. East Pakistan, West Pakistan, Nepal. Now they wanted the Bagram air base in Afghanistan which can target three countries minimum, India, China and Iran and and much more. And if Afghanistan is not willing to give Bram air base then then bring fire to Afghanistan through Pakistan and so much more. So the US does want India to become a vasal state, complete vasal state, another Japan kind of thing. That's what they want. Is India destined to be one? It all depends on the leadership of India. It is not good for India to be a vasal state of the of the US because eventually we will well go down the drain. Right? That's what happens. That is the fate of all vasals. Eventually they are used and once they they they are no longer of any use they are thrown away and not just thrown away, balconized. The British did that to us and this could happen to us again if you're not careful. So it will all depend on the leadership. The current leadership, Prime Minister Modi, is determined not to allow India to be vasalized, which is why we are facing more problems now. All the problems go away if we become a vasal. There are people who are asking on XO that Mr. Modi has such a bad foreign policy. Such a terrible foreign policy. Look at Dr. Manm Singh. When Dr. Manm Singh was prime minister, India US relations were so good, so smooth. Yeah, when Pakistan did 2611, India did not even respond. Obviously, relations will be good. If we are not a threat, if we are a nation without ambition, if we are a nation without any economic prospects, military prospects, obviously relations would be good. We were not a nation that mattered. India did not matter anywhere. Which is why the US treated us with benign neglect. Today, India matters. That's why the US has a very different approach towards India. So that's the deal. So my then the question is can India truly rise to the occasion through sweeping reforms? I am not sure about that. Sweeping reforms. What reforms do we need? End reservations. If India has to achieve its potential, we have to end reservations, cast based reservations. Does the current government have the the the wherewithal to do that? To say it politely? I'm not sure about that. India needs educational reforms, deep educational reforms. Does the current government have the wherewithal, the cohes to do that? I'm not sure. So we may perhaps not become a vasal, but will we rise to the potential to our true potential and become a genuine world power? I am not sure about that. Does the current government have the capacity to to bring in those sweeping reforms? Without those reforms, nothing changes in India. Without making India merit-based society, nothing changes in India. India will remain mediocre otherwise. So, I don't I'm not sure about that. But probably as long as Mr. Modi is in power, India will not become a vasal. ICMBB says, "Is the new H1B change the best chance for India to tackle its eternal tragedy of the commons brain drain problem?" We are all guilty, sir. Everyone's guilty. So, you don't have to say that I'm guilty myself. Everybody wants to leave this country. Everybody if given the chance will leave the country. Very few people actually have the chance, have the opportunity, have the means but don't leave the country. Very few people like that exist. We I'm sure we all know a few of those. Some of us may be those. So now um this H1B thing that this the Trump administration has done $100,000 is the apparently the onetime fee that has to be paid. Yesterday uh that fellow whoever his name is the guy standing to the right of Trump he was saying it's a yearly payment annual payment then the US government says no it's a one-time thing and it will not affect certain people they are intentionally creating chaos they intentionally spreading misinformation the guy standing to the right of Trump his own minion is saying it's an annual thing then they go on Twitter the government the US government and says no it's not annual to make it clear your guy said on live TV next standing next to Trump and Trump did not correct him and then you come and say it's not an annual thing. They are intentionally purposefully spreading confusion. And who's the victims? The Indian-Americans mostly 70% of the H1Bs are Indian-Americans. So yeah, there not even Indian-Americans, Indians who are on that visa. Not really Indian-Americans. So the point is this is devastating potentially for Indians who have this great dream of settling in the US. So what Indians do is this. You take a big loan 50 lakh rupees loan and you send your child to the US to study on a master's degree or something and you then spend the rest of your life paying off that loan. But the hope is that your your child will get a master's degree there and then somehow they will get a job in the US through H1B and then over over the next 15 20 years they'll become they'll get a green card and then become a citizen. So your entire your child's entire life the entire young adult life from the age of 25 to about 45 or 50 is spent in this chakra of hoping for a green card and then citizenship. I what kind of life is that? Horrible. I know plenty of people personally who are in that circle who are eternally waiting for that for the next phase of the of the immigration process to happen and it is purposefully slowed down for Indians. If you are born in Europe, the immigration process is fast like that. I would know. But if you are born in India, my goodness, they will slow everything down. So if it takes let's say 1 year for a for a person in Europe who was born in Europe, it'll take at least 10 times that that time period for Indians. So because of this new H1B visa policy, is it a is it the best chance for India to tackle its eternally eternal tragedy? Brain drain? No. I mean yes. Yes. But no, potentially no. Yes, definitely. So how does India tackle this tragedy? The tragedy is that all Indians who have some brain want to leave India and settle down in the in the US or some of the western country. They want to escape the ghastly living standards that you have in India. The corruption that allegedly plagues all levels of you know most levels of government. allegedly allegedly um you know cast cast based reservations very few job opportunities and career prospects all of that that plagues India Indians want to want to escape that which is why they go to the west mainly the US now that the US doesn't want Indians clearly what happens will India be able to resolve this brain drain issue no the Indians who want to escape will escape instead of the US they'll go somewhere They'll go to the UK, they'll go to Germany, they'll go to France, they'll go to Russia, they'll go to China, they'll go to Australia, they'll go to Singapore, they'll go somewhere. If they want to escape, they'll escape. It is this doesn't mean that the brain drain will be reversed. For the brain drain to reverse, India has to tackle some very deeprooted problems. The alleged corruption that that permeates allegedly many levels of governance. allegedly. Who wants to deal with that? Most Indians will leave because of that. Those who can. The fact that you know there are very few job opportunities in India. You want to do you want to have a career in in in quantum computing, you want to have a career in in nanotechnology, you want to have a career in whatever. Do you have prospects in India? And if prospects exist, how big are the prospects? Do you have the opportunities in India to really flourish and bloom to the highest to the best of your potential? Do you have it in India? Does India give those opportunities? And what about all the reservations and all that all that nonsense? So the the the opportunity exists, but will the the govern government grab the opportunity? Will they have the wherewithal to end these problems? better living standards which which will which necessitates a war on the alleged corruption that's allegedly everywhere allegedly h does the government have the wherewithal to do that can they end the reservations can they make India purely merit-based society like China that tragedy continues so Rohan says do you do you disagree with Scott Galloway that big tech like Apple and Google act act as IP landlords buying MSME tech and claiming credit without innovating. I don't disagree. I don't disagree with him. I don't disagree with him. All right. Okay. Sugata Saha. Well, thank you ma'am. Thank you for becoming a member. You're very kind. Thank you ma'am. And please welcome the new member. Thank you ma'am. Aris Manticor says Islamic NATO US proxy an outer ring of them. Of course, it's not really a US NATO. Look at NATO. Look at the actual NATO. What's the actual NATO? It's a bunch of European countries, Western European countries, plus Canada plus the US. Right? That's what it is. And the actual NATO, North Atlantic Treaty Organization has one single hgemonic power who is the overlord of everybody else. Undisputed leader. Who's that? It's the United States. Correct. The United States is the undisputed leader of NATO. Nobody even dreams of challenging the US for the top position. Now, if you want to create an Islamic NATO, you would need multiple nations to become members of this organization or alliance. Right now, it's just Saudi Arabia and Pakistan. Secondly, do you have an undisputed leader in the Islamic in the Islamic world? There are multiple aspiring leaders. Saudi Arabia obviously is the homeland of Islam. Secondly, Turkey wants to be the leader of the of the Islamic world. Then thirdly, you have Iran who wishes to be the leader of the Islamic world. And then Pakistan who says that we are the only Islamic nuclear power. We should be the leader. There are four nations who who are jousting for the top position and nobody is going to give up their aspirations. So you don't even have a clear leader. You don't have any hedgemen. How can you have an Islamic NATO even if more nations join it? So what that tells you is that this is actually a US orchestrated thing. If Saudi Arabia and Pakistan create a treaty, an alliance of mutual self-defense, it cannot happen without an ashiad, a blessing from the US. And maybe the Saudis don't really want Pakistan to be in alliance with them, but the Americans have told them the Saudis depend heavily on the US for national security, for defense, and for political stability. If the US wants, Saudi Arabia can be in terrible turmoil, Saudi Arabia has to do what the US says. Pakistan is even more dependent on on the US. They obviously also have to do what the US says. So the US says, "Okay, you you get together and that's what's happened, right?" So that is the deal, right? Divor Singh says, "I live close to an air force base and I see Dnur Singh is watching is is observing UFOs. I see American planes making impossible moves in the air at all times. It's almost an open secret here in Arizona making including making 180° turns super fast." Well, that's a really interesting observation. I mean last year in the in the last quarter of last year there was this this spate of UFOs over New Jersey and I saw some of the videos that that came out on social media. These UFOs these UAPs now they've rebranded UFOs to UAPs and some of the UAPs or UFOs looked like aircraft. They made they even made the the noise the sound of jet engines and all and then some of them would suddenly transform into orbs. which doesn't really follow the laws of physics that we are familiar with. But you know like Arthur C. Clark said any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic. So So now you are reporting that you actually observe this in real time. You observe this. It's in kind of an open secret in Arizona. Um where is that that place Area 51? It's not in Arizona, is it? It's in Nevada, is it? It's It's somewhere in that region, that arid part of the US, southwestern US. Uh, so yeah. So, what's really most likely happened is that this is advanced military technology and it's so advanced possibly that, you know, it looks to most people like it's UFOs. See for example there was this very famous air crash that happened in Roswell New Mexi Mexico probably 1947 I think I don't remember which year exactly probably 47 and there was this report the there was this bunch of reports in the US media that a flying saucer had crashed and the reports were very quickly covered up and the US military said air force said that this was a crashed air balloon weather balloon or something and the eyewitnesses had had reported that the craft looked like this boomerang shaped thing or something similar and that kind of is very similar to a a very peculiar design that had emerged out of Germany, Nazi Germany, the Horton brothers. They had this flying wing design for aircraft which is something that uh that Loheed Martin or whoever copied to create the the the stealth bomber, the first stealth bomber. So the Nazis were far far advanced, way more advanced than everybody else. And it's possible that the Americans were were were possibly test flying one of those aircraft and it crashed in Roswell, New Mexico. And it was so futuristic that people thought it was a flying saucer. So if that's what that was the situation in 1947, imagine what it is now. So it's possible that there's there are entire branches of of applied physics that have been essentially hidden away from the public. And it's possible that the that there is very advanced technology that is actually uh in possession of the US and uh some of it will be used for creating flying objects which will appear to break the laws of physics. So yeah I think it's it's not UFOs that you're witnessing. It's it's maybe Loheed Martin or something technology advanced technology secretive technology. Okay. Hey, Dn Singh says this is not a historical question. I went to San Diego. Saw Star of India, an old ship which is very famous. What's up with that? I am not aware of it. Star of India. What I know is that India had a very India was the first maritime civilization. And until the period of the British occupation, India had a very I mean very advanced ship building industry. Some of the ships that participated in the US war of independence and the US civil war were made in India. I believe that the ship on which the US national an anthem was written was also made in India. So maybe the Star of India is one of those. Let's let's if you want let's quickly Google that. What is the Star of India ship in San Diego? Let's see. Star of India, San Diego. What is this ship? It's the world's oldest active sailing ship. Iron Hold ship. Salmon holder. And why is it called the Star of India? It doesn't tell you why. And so on. Uh, US national anthem. Ship. Ship. Was it written on a ship? The star spangled banner was written about a British ship HMS mindon whatever it is it was built in Bombay India by Mr. Vadia a parci ship builder. There you have it. So yeah. So I'm not sure about the star of India but India and the US have this ancient connection there. Okay. Next. Bascar purohit says in some army circles we gave hint some in army circles gave a hint that we acquired 10 to 12 warheads per year since 2014. But some say every gram of highly enriched uranium is tracked by international agencies. If they clamped down on Iran hard, how did Barat do it? Okay, look, I have absolutely no idea of how many warheads we are acquiring per year. Uh, since whenever. But let's say that what you are saying is true. Since 2014, 10 to 12 warheads we are adding to our stockpile. Um, so let's say we had 100 warheads in 2014. We are adding let's say 10 per year. It's been 11 years. So 110. So maybe so by that from that perspect using those calculations we would have about 210 or so at least warheads by now and I'm not sure about highlyenriched uranium. Well it does it mean that we are infiltrated and the international agencies know exactly how much highly enriched uranium we have in the country? I doubt it. I don't think we are that badly infiltrated by international agencies. And also let's not let's not forget that our bombs may not be highly enriched uranium uranium bombs. Our warheads may employ plutonium. Plutonium has lots of advantages over highly enriched uranium. You need way less plutonium compared to uranium to have uh to have a viable nuclear weapon. Plutonium has a much smaller uh you need a much smaller amount of plutonium for it to go critical or supercritical which is the threshold of a nuclear explosion. So yeah I don't know about I can't speculate I can't speculate about this. I I don't have any connections in agencies. I don't have any connections in army circles who can talk talk to me about warheads and all that. So I have no idea. Can't speculate sir. Ojaswit says how relevant was India in geopolitics in 1980s 1990s irrelevant mostly even in 2014 India was irrelevant today it's relevant yeah what see you are relevant in geopolitics if you are powerful if you are really powerful if you have the ability to disrupt the world order shipping lanes whatever India did not have that ability of course for for for once in 1971 we showed a flash of brilliance and we bifurcated Pakistan And so then India suddenly became relevant and then we went to sleep again. 74 we test the nuclear weapon and then we go to sleep for 24 years. We shove it. Sh keep it on the shelf there. Keep it there. Right. It's only for display. What the hell? So India was irrelevant in geopolitics. Godliness says just now the crown states US a Canada Australia and more have recognized the so well the Palestine state. Okay. Interesting. The US under Trump is totally against this. But UK, Canada, Australia have recognized it. Um, crown states are revoling under the Trump administration against the Trump administration. Let's let's Google this. Um, Palestine Palestine recognition. Do we have any news live updates? Canada, Australia, and the UK recognize Palestinian statethood. So why have three American vasals recognized the Palestinian statethood? UK, Canada and Stria officially rec announced recognition of Palestinian statethood. Uh UK politics live crown states. Uh what's the news saying Starmer is going to announce it? MPM Abbas and what does Israel say about this? What will recognizing Palestine as a state? Okay, I'll not go into all that speculation that that will be now done there. So, this is breaking news. Essentially, we are just hearing about this. It's come in the last couple of hours. It looks like that these nations, the UK, Canada, and Australia have recognized the state of Palestine. So, what's it really do? Does it actually give freedom to the so-called state of Palestine? It does not, right? uh it's it's a token action like I always keep saying I've been repeating myself uh never endingly that there's a gigantic difference between words and actions words and actions so they are saying okay we officially recognize it that's words are they going to do something to create the actual state of Palestine are are they going to take some action against Israel and force Israel to withdraw from what they call Palestine the state of Palestine wherever it exists apparently I don't think they're going to do that. So maybe this is uh you know if you want to control a situation you want to control both sides of the situation if you want to control the Indian independent struggle if you are British you have to be supporting the British side as well as the Indian independent side but ensure that you prop up leaders from the Indian independent side who are completely passive and nonviolent that way it is a it is a independence movement only in name it doesn't really take any actual action to bring independence to India I Imagine an Indian independence leader who goes and tells the people of India tomorrow morning wake up and your job only job is to go and kill one English man then go home your job is done you have 24 hours to find one Englishman and kill him that's it one English occupier who is worse than the Nazis so it's fine to kill such people right foreign occupiers if that had been done by some Indian leader within 24 hours India would have been free but our leaders were nonviolence and pacivity. So the point is that this doesn't really make any difference. Um maybe it's just a ploy to be on both sides of the of the issue and control everything. I don't really see this making any difference to uh I don't see it really having the effect of actually creating the state of Palestine. Right? That won't happen. Basarit says India if India did not go down the blenders of Mr. Gandhi and Mr. Neu, UN security seat and so on. In hindsight, would we not be in a US wasal-like position today? It all depends like I keep saying on the leadership. If someone is offering us something, a powerful, genuinely powerful position with veto power and we take it, it actually puts us in a position where we are less likely to become a vasal if we have the right right leadership. If the US offers us nuclear technology, nuclear weapons technology, then we can consider it based on whether any strings are attached. Does it mean that you also have to create an have to give America a military base in India? Is it that sort of condition with which you will get a nuclear weapon? Then you should say no. But if they are just giving us nuclear weapons to uh to create a counterweight to China without any strings attached then we should have taken the technology. So it all depends on the leadership and how they assess the threat situation and what kind of risk benefit analysis they do. >> Right? It's not necessary that even if we had taken what the Americans were offering us, we would have become a vasal. Not necessary. We could have done it in a in a way that was mutually beneficial. It all depends on the leadership. That's the point. Divor Singh says, "I toured one of the retire retired aircraft carriers of the US Navy and they are bigger than any other ship I have ever seen and these are the most dangerous ships." So even the retired aircraft carriers of the US were pretty big, very large. Um, an aircraft carrier by definition has to be large enough so that aircraft can land. And there were times when even the C130, the C130 transport aircraft could land on non-nuclear US aircraft carriers. Let's let's Google it. Am I pulling this out of my backside? This this story. C130 landing on American aircraft aircraft carrier. C 130 Hercules landing on you landing on aircraft carrier. Did it ever happen? Yes sir, it did happen. So and these were non- nuclear or non-nuclear non-nuclear aircraft carrier. Yes, the C-31 Hercules can land on a non-uclear aircraft carrier. So today you will have Yeah. Suppose for example the USS Forestal which is obviously retired now. This is a nonuclear aircraft carrier. So you had these conventional aircraft carriers that were not even nuclear which were which means that they were not as large as today's super carriers and even on those ships you could have the C C130 Hercules that could land on it. So the these were immense ships even when they were non-uclear and today's nuclear aircraft carriers are genuine super carriers like football field sized aircraft. So yeah indeed gigantic ships and they carry immense firepower in the in the in the shape of not just the aircraft that uh are aboard but also the missiles that they carry the depth charges and uh anti-ubmarine warfare munitions that they carry and and much more super dangerous ships. Rohan Allan says why Kaashv have not climbed scientific why Kailash see we are discussing geopolitics sir I said at the very beginning I will only take questions from geopolitics there is no geopolitical significance of kailash and no scientific significance of kailash it has civilizational significance all right so we will not take this question today sorry sir MK says when did the US deep state take control of the US well I would say it will be before 1963 before 1963 exactly when well that would have been a creeping takeover maybe maybe the time when the US federal reserve was formed and it became a private entity perhaps around that time early 1900s I can't really pinpoint the location in in in the temporal history of the US uh but definitely before 1963 Divor Singh says American youth is getting radicalized really fast all over the world I see fighting age men getting polarized. It looks like the Balkans everywhere. Does it look like the time before the First World War? Kind of. It does, doesn't it? Kind of does. The US has never been as fragmented as as as it is right now. It almost looks like we are back the US is back to the to the 1840s or something or 1850s. You know what happened after the 1850s, right? I think everyone knows that. Yeah. So uh the US is getting radicalized. The American youth the American see it's it's kind of like the perfect storm. The US educational system has been declining. It's been slowly degrading since the 1950s and60s. I think it was at its peak in in terms of quality around 1950 1960. After that it starts declining. There's this radical left takeover of the US education system of the US universities and colleges. And today you will find lots of American youth who don't who can hardly read or li write at the third fourth grade level. That's how bad it is. There are people who have absolutely no understanding of the world outside of their little bubble. You ask them the what's the capital of Australia? They will say they have no idea. If you ask them to point out where is Mongolia on the map, they'll not know where it is. That sort of thing. Absolutely no understanding of the world. They they can hardly spell their own names. And when you are a a person who has come up through that kind of education system, you have no ability to think critically. You have no ability to discern what's right, what's wrong, and make your own judgments of what's right or what's wrong. So you look for guidance outside. You look for guidance elsewhere. You look for some role model, someone who appeals to you, someone who resonates with you emotionally and then you you listen to that person and whatever that person has to say and then you absorb all of that whatever the person is saying. This is called secondhand secondhand thinking. So most of the thoughts and beliefs in and all of that that Americans have it's not something they have they have they have uh come come upon themselves. They have not thought it through. They have simply absorbed someone's dogma. Dogma is is essentially secondhand thinking, the product of somebody else's thinking. So, everyone is is filled with dogma. And whoever they find that appeals to them in some way, they they they kind of believe what they say. And that's how you you have this polarization of society. there's either the left liberals or the or the right-winger the MAGA crowd and there may be some other factions who are much smaller in number. So especially if you have been through higher education, college or university level education, you if you have gone through that, there's a very high chance you're going to be a left liberal. Um and that's the situation. So the American youth is genuinely like super polarized, super radicalized and uh this sort of thing is happening in Europe also. So there's tremendous polarization everywhere. True. And uh the US looks like like I said kind of back to its 18 1850s moment 1840s 1850s and the rest of the world especially western Europe etc is being swamped with immigration the people are helpless there's nothing they can do everything is is being done through Brussels Brussels is or orchestrating all these immigration policies and uh the people feel helpless maybe there'll be some spark somewhere that could who knows but the problem is that during the first world war you had lots of genuinely independent nations nation states and they all had agendas of their own and they were all waiting since essentially since 1871 to for the right moment to take action to to achieve whatever their agenda demanded. So these nations were all genuinely independent. Some of them formed blocks and coalitions and and so on. But today in Europe you have no independent nation, no sovereign nation at all in Europe. They are either part of the EU or NATO or both. which means they are not sovereign. So they're helpless. The real power in in Western Europe is the US and in the east you have Russia. So the world is going back to the imperial system and that's the situation kind of. Yeah. So Dn Singh says why did the US pull out of NATO article 5? Um I'll have to look it up. What is NATO article 5 and what what is this? Uh NATO article 5. What is that? NATO article what's five what's it say an armed attack against one or more members will be okay the that thing is the US part of that USA what's the deal u obligates the US another has US pulled out US pulled out really really us pulled out NATO invoked I'm not Sure, the US has pulled out of it. Can Europe still count on Trump has threatened to withdraw the US from NATO and all? I'm not sure if the US has pulled out of NATO article 5. As long as you're a member of NATO, you have to abide by all the articles of me of NATO. You can't pick and choose and cherrypick which article you will accept and which you will not accept. That doesn't work. It doesn't really work like that. As long as you are a treaty member of NATO, you have to abide by all the articles. I'm not sure if the US has pulled out of article five. To do that, you have to pull out of NATO itself, I would say. Okay. Dan Dave says, "I'm on H1. I make 300,000 plus here as a as a senior project manager. H1 will remain on paper. H1 visa holders will simply leave because of the chaos anarchy for visa holders." And that's what it looks like. There's this this this tremendous confusion right now that the Trump administration has purposefully created. Um what's his name? The that the guy Trump's minion Lutnik Lutnik, right? Howard Lutnik. He said yesterday on live TV that there's going to be an annual fee of $100,000 for each H1B visa. He said that standing one foot away from Trump and Trump did not correct him. So he's he's standing next to the president of the US, he's saying that's going to be an annual fee of $100,000. And Trump's nodding, yeah. And then next day, the what what Pam, whatever her name is, whatever that lady, the spokesperson, she says, to be clear, there is no such thing. But the guy standing to the right of the president said it's a it's a thing. So they are purposefully sowing chaos right and obviously in the US as we know right now this there is this tremendous anti-India sentiment that has been engineered over the past two or three years. I pointed this out in 2022. In 2022, after the special military operation began in Ukraine and India refused to participate in American and Western sanctions on Russia, the the West started this this outpouring of vitriol against India on in the media and on social media. So whether it is UK- based uh media outlets like the BBC like the Guardian whether it is Germany based Deutschea or whatever whether it is the New York Times or the Washington Post or the New Yorker or whatever they all started this outpouring of of anti-India articles whether it's Rand Corporation or think tanks or whatever and you had a much lower level much much baser level of anti-Indian propaganda all across social media. So I pointed out that this is going to be a big big big problem for India. I said this in 2022 itself. You can watch my old old live streams and videos in which I have spoken about this multiple times. So today the situation is that most Republicans, most uh right-wing, most conservative people in the US hate Indians and the left has never liked Indians. The Democrats, Indians generally vote for the Democrats, but the Democrats have no love for Indians. Um, the US, I'll assure you, is a is a deeply racist nation. It's a settler colonial state founded on the genocide of brown-skinned people. And you Indians, us Indians are brownkinned people. We aren't white. The US is a deeply fundamentally racist country. Okay? Uh, just read their declaration of independence. What does the declaration of the independence of independence say? What's it say about the natives? the savages, savage Indians, right? So, this is like an like a Hindu exclusion act all over again. What this H1B visa thing and uh yeah, so there's going to be chaos, there's going to be anarchy, there's going to be more and more anti-Indian hate and it just makes sense for Indians to no longer go to the US, I would say. So, yeah, take your business elsewhere. I'm sure if you are a highquality professional uh the world is out there for you and you can go and uh you know do well elsewhere. Divoru Singh says in a pure war scenario will Saudi Arabia now have to stand against India. I doubt if Saudi Arabia will actually come to Pakistan's aid uh in a material sense if there's a a resumption of operation hind or something similar. Look, there is a mutual defense treaty. No question about it now. So, it's official. It's I'm I'm sure the Saudis did not really want this to happen. They they had no intention of doing it, but the Americans told them to do it. And you can't say that no to to the to the overlord. So, there's this mutual defense treaty now. So, what does what's it going to really mean in in in in real terms, the way I see it, the US wants to strengthen Pakistan's defense preparedness. The Pakistani military is kind of weak right now. They got hammered during Operation Sundu in just three days. No matter what they claim 6 and all the all the BS. Pakistan got hammered really bad. We saw all of those videos on YouTube on on social media on Twitter, right? All those missile strikes landing in the heart of Pakistan, Nur Khan Air Base and Kirana Hills and Rahul Pindi and that that cratered airfield and all that. Do did you see a single such video from emerging from India anywhere? No. So Pakistan is in a bad situation. If there's a war with India, they're going to get hammered and balconized. The Americans need Pakistan as a counterweight to India. They need Pakistan as a troublemaker, potential troublemaker to be deployed at any on on demand against India. So for that, you have to prop up Pakistan. You have to strengthen Pakistan. You have to supply Pakistan with funds. You have to supply Pakistan with military equipment. Now Pakistan is a terror terrorist nation that that harbored Osama bin Laden. So you can't do it openly otherwise the US public will question Trump what the hell are you doing Trump this is not why we why we voted for you. So then the simple answer is you route it through Saudi Arabia. So I think Saudi Arabia will will serve as a conduit for American military equipment and American funding to Pakistan or maybe the Americans will just tell the Saudis to send to give their own money to Pakistan. Whichever way it works that's the role Saudi Arabia will play. If there's a war I don't think Saudi Arabia will be involved directly. Maybe they will send funds. They'll say send oil. Maybe they will send more weapons to Pakistan. But I don't expect Saudi soldiers to go to two against Indians. I don't expect that to happen. MK says Israel is a sovereign country then who and why etc. orchestrated Israeli judicial reform protests. Can we kick out Starling now as relations hit bottom? I think Starling needs to be revisited. We can't have stalling in India. If Israel is so is a sovereign country who orchestrated 2023 Israel judicial reform protest maybe the Israelis did it themselves who knows who knows maybe they did not want Netanyahu and you can see that now there is no protest against Netanyahu what happened to the trial that corruption trial against Netanyahu it's all very quiet now he has proved his worth so no trial no protests now the judiciary is pleased everybody is pleased so you can Everything is fine now. But from about Starling, I completely agree with you. Starling needs to be kicked out. We can't have Starling in India. Arian Thus, thank you sir. Thank you very much. DNS Singh says, "Does India have its own UAPs?" Well, I haven't seen any any personally. I hear rumors of of such activities sometimes happening in the far north of India and the Himalayan region etc. But um I don't know. I'm not sure that we have our own UAPs. I I don't see any reports coming out on social media or any such thing. See, today everybody has a cell phone. Everyone can take at least a bloody kind of image if there's a UAP somewhere. And you sometimes see people taking videos of of uh missile launches, rocket launches and so on whenever they happen. The contrails, glowing contrails, whenever there is some kind of re-entry of space debris like what happened a couple of days ago or over or DIY and Noida, people take videos and the videos flood social media. So the people of India are ever ready with their cell phones, right? But you don't see videos of UAPs or UFOs emerging out of India. So looks like we don't have that as far as I can tell. Sam is a new member. Thank you so much, sir. And welcome to membership. Thank you so much. Appreciate that. In 1991, what was my reaction when the USSR dissolved in 1991? I was an immature child and I was I was very very taken with American propaganda. So I was like yes the evil empire has dissolved. The world is now free and democratic. That's what I believed at the time. You see you you learn you evolve. Many of the beliefs you have they change over time and they should. Otherwise you're not learning. You're not you're not growing. In in 1991 when the Americans invol in invaded Iraq, I was like why isn't India getting involved? We should be on the right side of the world. Saddam Hussein is this evil dictator. We should be taken out. That's what I believe is is this silly, naive, immature child. I was at the time deep into my study of history and whatnot. But I still did not have the patterns. I could not see the patterns yet. I could not really tell what's right and what's wrong. at that time, right? So, yeah, I was a a naive, immature, silly child and I was like, "Yes, USA the best country in the world. Kennedy best president." Yes, sir. USSR evil. Saddam Hussein said, "Damn it." Okay. Arvinda Shinasan says outcome for the for the country if from the 11th instead of NCERT texts like Holiday Resnik Atkins Thomas calculus etc introduced along with Klausowitz and little heart in martial arts training it'll be a transformative thing for India I mean I don't understand why we wallow in mediocrity I recently saw some textbooks for the 10th standard for mathematics those textbooks are atrocious they they gave give me a headache. How do you teach with those textbooks? If you want to do algebra and and number systems and and what they call Surds, which is irrational numbers and and whatever, why do you treat teach it in the wrong order and with so little problem solving? How on earth do you expect children to understand? The simplest thing is give kids the Shom series book on on introductory algebra and whatn not introductory trigonometry and geometry you don't need anything else why do you have to reinvent the wheel and that to create an inferior wheel so I would say if you do if we do this if we introduce all the sham series books as the text books that will transform see if you have the sham series book okay I have a whole bunch of sham series books over here I still have my old ones. I have like basic stuff like uh college algebra and whatnot. You know, children level stuff. The point is if you have a Sham series book and you want to learn algebra, you don't need a teacher. You don't need a teacher. That book teaches you everything. It holds your hand and teaches you everything from A to Zed. It will put teachers out of business. That's the problem. That's why they don't introduce Tom series books in India. You take Holiday Resnik and if you have the the basic mathematical understanding, you don't need a physics teacher. You don't even need Helenic for physics. You can do you can take the books by Shom for physics. So the point you don't need Thomas calculus. I have never seen Thomas calculus. Go with Hel go with Sham series calculus. They have a basic calculus. They have advanced calculus and whatever else tensor you don't need tensors. The point is the best books in the world exist. Just get those books and give it to the kids. And then if you also introduce martial arts training, well, imagine how it will weaponize the Indian minds, not just mentally but physically. It will transform India. But why will the government of India do that? They won't do it. We need reservations. We need all this nonsense. We need to keep India down and mediocre. So frustrating. Timbuktu panda says, "Should I innr be backed by Bitcoin and gold standard?" I am very very suspicious of Bitcoin and all this stuff. Gold, sure, absolutely gold is great. Gold is the only real store of value historically, even today. Bitcoin and all one one solar flare and all your Bitcoin is fried. Okay. So, yeah, I don't I don't trust Bitcoin. It's not a long-term store of value. It's not. Gold is. A known user says global left runs narrative in every country. In India, the push narrative of making citizens feel more inferior. The Indian inferior complex. It's it's it's it's perpetuated by the education system, by your textbooks, by your godamned professors and teachers and also by the by the news media and the and the entertainment industry and all all that. The whole society perpetuates this. It's a self-perpetuating loop. So how will this change? Will the left always remain strong in and is collapse of the left possible? Anything is possible. How will it change? It'll change when India has the right kind of leadership. Really strong leadership? Anything is possible. What is the left? The left is in India at least the left is allegedly a set of a bunch of mercenaries who who will work for allegedly the highest alleged bidder. Allegedly that's the Indian left in in China. The left is the Chinese Communist Party and they are sup supreme patriots in in the USSR. The left were the they the the Soviet communist party, right? And they were also patriotic. They they were not they they executed traitors, right? Uh but in India allegedly the left is a bunch of alleged mercenaries who alleged allegedly work for the highest alleged foreign bidder. So, so, so it will change if we have the right leadership, when we have the right leadership, strong ironinfested leadership. Is the collapse of the left possible? Of course, it's possible. DNU Singh says, "So, democracy has almost failed all across the globe. Is a China like one party ruled better or North Korea like dictator or Stalin like socialism?" I would say for for every country a different every country depending on its culture on its on its values should have its own form of governance. See we have done this experiment with democracy. Has it really worked out for India? Think about see we have the oldest known history of all cultures on the planet. Think back to the times when India was at its peak culturally, civilizationally, economically. Before the 1700s, India was the world's largest economy. Uh I'm not claiming it. And Madison Madison has shown it. The American economist. Uh so when what what were the times when India was at as its pinnacle? you know overall as a as a as a power you can think of the various imperial periods the Moran Empire the Koshan Empire the Gupta Empire the Chola Empire the Marata Empire and so on so what do all those periods have in common Imperial rule non-democratic rule but what kind of imperial rule what is an imperial rule it's a dictatorship with a with a dictator which is the emperor but what kind of dictatorship or or imperial system did we have during all those periods the Moran period the Kushan period the Gupta period and so It was dharmic dictatorship right so for India that's what will work best dharmic dictatorship which means a benevolent dictator example of benevolent dictator Lie Kuanu great man ironfisted ruler but a great man who spent his entire life dedicating himself to the upliftment of his people and his country that's what you need right so I would say I would not say that we need someone like Stalin I would say we would need someone like Vishnu Chanaga plus Chandra Gupta Moria or Ashoka the great who was possibly both of them combined into one or perhaps someone like Kaneska the Koshan one of the greatest Indians ever or maybe someone like Scandupta or Chandra Gupta II or maybe someone like Chhatrapati Maharaj or someone like Rajendra Chula that sort of thing right someone who walks the path based on the teachings of the Bhagwat Gita not Gita Gita The the gith of Bhagwan who Sri Krishna the man who said who tried his best to avert war but when all attempts failed he said kill them all the the evil guys right. MK says is the government of India aware of ministers whose family members are western citizens and how to handle it and how will India now act on the next Dalai Lama? Is the government of India aware of something? Well, you have to ask the government of India not me. I am not a representative of the government of India. So I am not the person to ask this question sir. I think whatever the situation is is is look if everyone knows it I'm sure the government of India also knows it by government of India what do you mean? What do you exactly mean by government of India? Do you mean Shar Modi G? I suppose Shar Modi G knows everything. How to handle it? That's for Shar Modi G to decide. At least we can trust him, right? Uh how will India act on the next Dalai Lama? It will all depend on how China behaves. We shall see. All right. We shall see. It will behave. It will depend on China's approach and attitude towards the India China relationship over the next coming period of time. India and China are now both being targeted and encircled by the US. So is Russia. The US is h looks like it's hellbent on creating RAIC. But how will China approach this? How will China behave? What is China's approach and attitude going to be like depending on that? And what do I mean by that? I mean that if you want a constructive India China relationship that can never happen unless the core issue is resolved which is the undemarcated India Tibet border. Will China show willingness to resolve this in a in a certain time frame or will they keep dragging their feet? If they keep dragging their feet then to hell with China. We'll we'll we'll see. We'll we'll figure a way out because without resolving this issue, you can never normalize India China relations. So it'll all depend on the approach of China. Vive Singh says the Ministry of Defense is beating around the bush to buy the IIAF squadrons. Why are we unable to decide decide our way ahead? We are stuck with air independent propulsion and SSN submarine delays too. I think the government of India needs to really get it get its act together. It is imperative that we transform ourselves in over the next I wouldn't say 10 years maybe 3 to 5 years maximum into a nation with real teeth. real teeth. For that we have to transform ourselves into a very powerful military equipation and the navy is is a key component to that and and we still have what 15 submarines what are we a joke of some kind 15 submarines so I think it's it's high time the government gets its act together um I would say see right now we hearing that we are going to buy the rafal more Rafals there is this very tempting offer of the Sukoy 57 also I and we have the Tjas mark 1A and the and the AMCA and all that and the key to all of that is the jet engine issue. We have to find the the best way forward and we cannot keep on dragging our feet. The past 11 years we're waiting for for an announcement for the next big purchase or acquisition of a large number of fighter planes. What on earth is going on? So I'm sure the government alone isn't the cause of the problem. Maybe there are issues with the Indian Air Force etc. also possibly whatever the issues are. Resolve the issues. You can't allow these procedural delays and bureaucratic delays and whatn not and some individuals potentially allegedly whatever hypothetically to affect the national interest and to hurt the national interest. So we need to resolve this jet engine imglio at the earliest. We need to acquire, I would say, 50 submarines, build, buy, beg, borrow, steal, whatever. We need at least 50 submarines, I would say. And and whatever else. So, as a stop gap measure before we can have the AMCA rolling out in another 10 years, maybe set up production lines of the Sukoy 57 as well as the Rafal 44.5 whatever in India. Set up two production lines. We already have we are already you know using Rafal aircraft. So we know how to use those. So set up production lines build 100 or so and build another 100 200 Sukoya 57s and acquire acquire the technology if the Russians are offering it and and that will al obviously help us you know build derivatives of those aircraft so we can build our own Sukoy instead of 5767 or whatever eventually. So that's what we need to do and that to soon divor Singh says today Germany says it will command Europe if the US pulls out. Some Germans say uncle H wasn't really that bad. Uncle Hard some of his speeches looks like it's true. Was it 6 million or 271,000? Very controversial questions. I have no idea. Was it 6 million or 271,000? I don't know. I grew up believing that it was 6 million. As a kid when I lived in Europe, I used to watch these World War II documentaries and I was like, "Yeah, German Nazis killed six million Jews and only Jews, nobody else." Later it emerges that at least I don't know about a million plus Romanis were killed apparently and the numbers have been consistently understated you know you know kind of kind of that entire story is is has been brushed under the swept under the carpet and and Jews like Elie Wisel what's his name Eli Wisel or whatever his name was what what was it let me see Eli Elie what's his name E L I E Wisel this this gentleman okay Romanianb born Jewish nobel laurate etc and he tried to um tried to you know kind of sweep the Romani thing under the the carpet Romani oh nothing about this on Wikipedia that's interesting nothing about this on Wikipedia Eliisel Romani Ro Romani Gypsy. What about it? So this entire thing is now you will not find anything about this remembering the Roma victims of the Holocaust. Okay. This this lady it it was claimed she was Jewish. She was actually Romani but her name was Satella Tinbach. Okay. So Eli. Okay. So that entire story seems to have been uh airbrushed out of existence. It looks like um yeah so so you know Google won't show you this now. Very interesting that Google won't show you that. So there was this this plan to create a vict a memorial for the victims of the Holocaust in the US somewhere during Bill Clinton's time. And there was they they had intended to also honor the Romani victims of the Holocaust. And this guy Eli Wisel was against that that the Holocaust belongs only only to the Jewish people and the Romanis don't matter because they are brown, right? That sort of thing. So yeah, there we have it. Um so Germany says it will command Europe if the US pulls out. Okay. Well, let's see if Germany has any leadership. Who's the current German chancellor? the guy who went to the White House and present presented uh the birth certificate of Donald Trump's grandfather or something, the guy who saccepted the US, that guy. Um I don't think there's any leadership in Germany today. So how if if there's no leadership in Germany, how will they how will they take over the leadership of Europe? I don't see that happening. Some Germans say Uncle H wasn't bad. Well, some Americans also say Uncle H wasn't bad, right? And if you hear his speeches, see I remember him those black and white speeches. When you hear those when you listen to those speeches in German, they sound very aggressive. But when you actually hear the listen to the translations, he's not saying anything aggressive at all. He's he's actually saying that talking about policies and whatnot, economic policy and all that. Nothing about kill the Jews or whatever. But it doesn't mean that he did not kill the Jews. So we don't quite know what the truth is. you know a lot of propaganda a lot of narrative stories and whatn not rit says the US is powerful has vosalized so many countries why can they still not dominate over Russia like Russia destroyed Ukraine can't we attack neighbor the Russia Russians haven't destroyed Ukraine Russia hasn't destroyed Ukraine go to Kiev you can Kiev is okay many of the Ukrainian cities are completely intact the war is happening on on the on the on the wheat fields of Ukraine. It's not really h and in some whatever most of Ukraine hasn't been destroyed. Uh the US is powerful. They can't still dominate. Why can't they dominate Russia? Because the Russians are also powerful. They have more nuclear warheads than the US. Simple. The Russians are not they are not a doormat. Defeating Russia isn't that easy. Russia has more nuclear weapons and the means to deliver those nuclear weapons than the US. So Russia has taken the precautions it needs to take. That's why the US aren't able to dominate Russia. Uh why can't we attack neighbors? Because the our neighbors are assets of the US. You yourself have mentioned sir that the US has vasalized so many countries. Well, if you look at east and west Pakistan, these are US vasals. Nepal is a newly minted US vasal. The US is pressurizing Afghanistan to hand over the Bram air base which will once again vasize Afghanistan. So the Americans are creating a ring of thorns around India, a fence of thorns. Look at Myanmar. Look at the disaster in Manipur. What is the cause of the disaster in Manipur? Project Kukan for Christ. Who is orchestrating that? So if you think that India is that powerful that we can you can take over attack and take over American vasals in our neighborhood. Well, I've got some news for you. We can't. You'll say, why is India so weak? Look at China. They want Taiwan. Taiwan is right next door to the the Chinese. Can they take it? They can't. That's how powerful the US is. Please don't underestimate the how powerful the US is and that will tell you how powerful Russia also is. Gallivor says need a thoughtful answer not a politically correct one. I'm going to give you diplomatic answers because I have a life to live too. You have to be able to understand what I'm saying. Now what's the question? Is racial contempt a weapon? Mention the oath leading to 22nd June. Are you talking about Nak what was 22nd June 1941? Let me check it out. Okay. I don't remember all the dates. I don't memorize dates. Let's see. 22 June 1941. What happened? Crystal Nak was it? It was operation Barbar Roa. 22nd June 1941. Operation Barbarosa. Okay. So what are you saying leading to 22nd June 1941? What about the Anglo-Saxons? Racial contempt. The Anglo-Saxons are a sup supremely racist people that you should know. See, let me explain. You don't want a politically correct answer. Let me give you a plain answer. Um, the Germans have this concept. Let me show you the concept. Why are the Nazis evil? Why do we consider the Nazis to be evil? Because of one of the reasons is this concept. Libans Libans the territory which a group state or nation believes is needed for its natural development. It's a German concept of expansionism and focus nationalism. Um look it was a German concept of expansionism. So the Germans said that Germany the nation the nation of Germany is not enough territory. It's not enough space for the German people to thrive in. We need more land. We will take the land of the Slavic peoples and we will settle Germans there and that's going to be our Libans, the land that the German people need to thrive. So we will take land from the Slavic peoples. What will happen to the Slavic people there? That okay, we'll we'll kill them off or we'll send them to Siberia, which is another euphemism for killing them off. So the Nazis were so evil they wanted to take over the land of the Slavic peoples to the east of Germany big more than Germany land that is more than the nation of Germany and they will get rid of the people who live there eliminate them and settle Germans there and that how that's how Germany will thrive such an evil concept right now think about it the Nazis so naturally we consider Nazis to be evil because they have this evil concept take someone's land, exterminate those people and settle your people there. Lebanon's how now the Anglo-Saxons what did they do in North America? They implemented the concept of lean on a continental scale. Not just in North America, also on another continent called Australia. They wiped out the natives of two continents and created Lebanon there. They took the concept to a to and implemented it on such a scale that the Nazis could not even dream of such of for such a scale. The Anglo-Saxons. Who's the original Nazis? Am I being politically correct now? And what was behind all of this? They believe that they are superior. And the and the brown-skinned people who lived in these places, they they their life was worth nothing. So they exterminated between 50 to 100 million native Americans and God knows how many native Australians. Yeah, there you have it. Divor Singh says is a controlled demolition happening of the US. They can deconstruct the US and make it seem like they lost power naturally to fool us. I mean who's there? Who is they? I don't think a control demolition is happening right now. A control demolition of Europe is happening. That I that that I can see. Europe is being deindustrialized. All of that is being done through Brussels. So Germany has shut down its nuclear reactors. They have dismantled their nuclear reactors. They now burn coal. What about global warming and all that BS? What what happened there? So Germany now no longer has access to plentiful uh to a plentiful source of cheap energy which you need for a large economy for a manufacturing based economy that energy was coming in from Russia Russian gas that's not available anymore has been detonated and the whole of the European see there are two major economies in Europe one is Germany one is France how are they doing not great Germany is going backwards it's contracting and overall Europe is not doing great at Europe is stagnating. So economically Europe is kind of dead. Geopolitically it's irrelevant. Geopolitically it's not powerful. Now they're going to put more more of the bill of NATO, the more of the burden of NATO. They're going to double their expenditure their the share of the GDP which goes to defense which will which is going to prioritize American interests in the region not their own interests. Um they they none of the nations are sovereign. All of the nations are saddled with increasing illegal immigration uh which which is being done by Brussels. Brussels decides how much immigration each nation needs to take every year and you get only certain flavors of immigrants military age males from certain certain regions of the world only. Right? So Europe is being destroyed in this manner. We are witnessing a controlled demolition of Europe for sure. Now the same is beginning to happen in Japan. So they're going to bring in a whole bunch of god knows what kind of people into Japan. I can see a lot of Bangladesh is appearing in Japan and god knows what other kind of people appearing appearing in Japan. And obviously the people of Japan don't want that but who cares? And when it comes to the US, the US is increasingly polarized. The education system is increasingly garbage. So the American people can't think for themselves anymore. and uh yeah so it looks like the west is imploding in some sense but it's all being done in a precise calibrated manner so who's who's doing all this I would say well the the the finger of blame would typically go towards the deep state whatever that is right um then why would you deliberately give up your power you're not really giving up your power but you're just transforming the world the way it And actually whoever could potentially be your threats to you, those people you're going to defang them. Essentially, that's what it looks like. Godliness says first the 50% tariff, then the Saudi Pak deal, then sanctions on Chabahar, now the H1B visa fee, now discussion on Kata. What next? What's next? Next eventually sanctions on India. What next? IndiaPakistan war, maybe Bangladesh, maybe Myanmar weaponized further against the whole of the northeast of India, maybe Afghanistan is again under US occupation and from there they can support Pakistan. If you want Pakistan to go to war to with India, then why don't you you retake Bram air base which was under your occupation for 20 years and create a powerful American air base there. So in case Pakistan gets hammered, they can intervene. India is being encircled right now. This will will this stop? Will this go further? It's going to go further. It's going to go further, sir. Sid says, "How long will it take us to reach China's level of infrastructure, durable roads, nationwide highspeed rail, efficient drainage and lower air pollution?" Look, highspeed rail, let's take one example, highspeed rail. Well, the first highspeed rail is coming up between what? Mumbai and Ahmedabad, the the bullet train, right? um that started when close to a decade ago the the the first construction of the whole thing the beginning of the construction of the project and then there were delays in some parts of the route for apparently political reasons I'm not sure and u it'll still take apparently a few years before the the highspeed rail bullet train thing becomes operational so this is what's the distance between Mumbai and Amdawad 800 km let's go to the map and quickly figure it out. What's the distance? Um 800 or so kilometers. Let's quickly go. Let's do a straight line distance between Mumbai and Ahmedabad. Measure distance roughly. Okay, it's not 800. Excuse me. It's 450 km. That is tiny. It's a short stretch of highspeed rail. 450 km. And that is taking like a decade or something. at that speed. It's going to take us a century to have half the kind of coverage that China has. The Chinese do things at a break neck speed, not at a at a snail pace. So if you want nationwide highspeed rail at the speed at which things are going currently, it's going to take you more than a century. You see um durable roads. Well, if you go to most Indian cities allegedly, you will see that roads are rebuilt every year allegedly. Every year you build a new road. When you lay the road again allegedly and then a few weeks allegedly after the road is relayed, some people will come and start digging it up. Government employees allegedly and they will lay new pipelines or whatever allegedly and then again re repatch the road and now it's no longer straight and it's all full of potholes and whatnot. And then allegedly during each rainy season the roads will disintegrate into potholes and moonlike surface allegedly. And the next year the process starts again. This is money laundering obviously right allegedly. So if if this is and if this is allegedly the norm in some parts of India, then it will take essentially an infinite amount of time for us to have uh the same sort of uh level that China has of infrastructure, durable roads, straight flat roads without any potholes and whatnot. It can be done. It can be done tomorrow if you want. But for that you will have to launch a war on the alleged corruption that exists allegedly across India allegedly. Yeah. So I have no idea how long will it take close to an infinite amount amount of time the way things are right now. Divor Singh says do you think a conservative America is a stronger America. I was personally in MAGA for a while looks like everything is better in general than the liberals. Overall I think any nation if it is conservative is more stable. See what is the liberal movement? The liberal movement is about rapid change and moving away from the past. The liberal movement is predicated on the on the cons on on on on the belief or the the the the concept that traditional systems are oppressive in some manner. Um it's all based on Marxist ideology. So traditional systems are the the systems that are rooted in tradition that go go back centuries. Those obviously constructs are all oppressive constructs because they marginalized the the the the proletariat and they uplifted the bourgeoisi and uh they they gave rise to all these lump elements and so on. So you to dismantle that and you have to bring everybody on the same same footing same even level. So essentially that's the the the foundation of the liberal movement and you will see that in liberal movements everywhere around the world even the first liberal movement that you can think of which is the French revolution was all about fraternity equality of people liberty equality fraternity and obviously that can only happen if you take lop the heads of the the the the bois and the royalty royal royalty right so the liberal movement is all about that it's about dismantling institutions it's about dismantling social structures it's about dismantling traditions But what are you going to replace all of that with? You're going to have to replace institutions with new institutions. But new institutions create new traditions. And most people, the average person needs some kind of framework, moral, ethical, etc. And religious framework based on which they can live their life. Most people can't think for themselves a priority from first principles. Most people need that guidance that comes from outside which which is the role that religion and and culture and tradition has has traditionally played and that's why you know it it makes it makes people ruthless. So it's a problem. If the whole country is liberal, then it's a country full of chaos and anarchy. Which is why you will find that no matter which country you are in even if it's whatever the type of religion, religious system etc. you have you know conservative uh movements are generally more stable and generally better overall. So I know that MAGA from from an Indian perspective MAGA isn't good for India. the MAGA the people who who the average MAGA person hates India right they hates they hate brown people they hate Hindus and so on which I'm sure you would have realized at some point in time that there is this undercurrent that that flows below the surface uh but yeah overall it's better than the liberals for the country itself not for other countries possibly but for the country for the US itself yeah okay project smiling Buddha says assessment about prime minister Modi's statement our enemy is reliance on other countries when did he say that did he say that today he gave an address to the nation today which I kind of briefly caught was talking about GST rates and such so are these words just words or some actions that can be expected I am I'm hopeful that actions will come out of this see prime minister Modi is a man of action that we know the action may take time because of the the kind of system that we have but he is a man of action for sure that we can be pretty certain about. So if he has said that our enemy is our reliance on other countries, I hope that he is talking about uh technological sovereignty there because the entire nation depends on well platforms that have been created by a country that is right now increasingly hostile towards India. Whether it is Facebook, whether it is Instagram, whether it is Google, whether it is YouTube, whether it's X, whatever, all these are foreign platforms. And we depend on these platforms for communication with each other. If the platforms disappear, we will be all separate from each other. We will have no means of communicating. Right now, we Indians take this for granted that we can communicate with each other in real time. I can instantaneously communicate with somebody who's living in Shilong or someone who's living in Gujhati or someone who's living in Kochi or someone who's living in Lei and I can talk to all these people at the same time if I want to. We all can do it. Social media has brought India together for the first time in a thousand years. But it's a borrowed platform. It's a foreign platform and they decide what happens on these platforms. For three, four years around 5 years, my Twitter was frozen at 64,000 followers. Yeah. Do you know that? And right now, do you have any idea what's happening to my YouTube? So, this is what happens when you we have a reliance on foreign platforms. So, that is obviously an enemy for the country, our reliance on other countries. So we have to become entirely sovereign including technological sovereignty. It's very important. So if the prime minister has said this, Mr. Modi has said this, I am very hopeful that some real transformation will come about as a consequence of what he has said. I am very hopeful. YouTube is saying through there are YouTube channels created in 2022 that makes videos every week on how Russia is collapsing and then it's indigenous republics want to secede what's your opinion you know in 2022 they were saying that Putin has got 3 months to live he is suffering from advanced cancer then they were saying that more than a million Russian soldiers have died in 6 weeks in 6 months they were saying Russia is about to collapse Russia is about to lose the Ukraine war Ukraine is winning Ukraine is winning this Ukraine is winning that Ukraine is going to wipe Russia out of Bahmut. Russ Ukraine is going to do this. Every every day they come up with a new story that Russia is on the brink of defeat in Ukraine. Well, and I was the one who was saying Russia is winning and people used to make fun of me. Where are we today? Where are we today? Tell me. Is Ukraine still winning? Is Russia still on on the verge of collapse? Is Putin still about to die from from advanced cancer? What? What? How long will you continue these lies? So all of this is nonsense. It's it's propaganda. That's my opinion and it's a fact. By the way, MK says, would the deep state be pro or anti-secn amendment? If there is regime change in India by US, then what are the chances of the present regime come back later through elections? If there is a regime change in India through the US, the presentation will never come back. Never elections. Haha. What is what is that vote? That's that's when vote story will happen. Now, what is a second amendment? I am not an expert on American things and all that. Let me see what is the second amendment. What is this? Let's let's put Google on the screen. Let's let's Google the second amendment. See, I am aware of all these things, but I don't recollect things on demand because there's way too much information in my head. So let's see second amendment. Second amendment of constitution. Okay. What is that? The second amendment is the second amendment of the US. Oh the right to right of the people to keep and bear arms and the No, we're talking about the US uh constitution, not the Indian constitution. Uh would the deep state be pro or anti- US second amendment? I think there will not be anti-second amendment because that will create anarchy. The people will resist and there's going to be civil war if you try to take away their weapons in the US. Weapons, guns and Americans, it's a old it's an age-old romance, Americans and their guns. You can't take guns away from Americans. They're going to they're going to put their lives on the line. They will defend their liberty with their lives. Do not tread on me. The rattlesnake. So um if they try to take the guns away there's going to be chaos and anarchy in the US and a lot of violence. Barata says the way Trump's behaving it makes it weirdly makes one agree with the global left lunatics on how he is actually one himself and dangerously unstable and unpredictable even on the issues that need no fixing. There is a method to Trump's madness. There is a reason why he has been given uh the presidency of the US. Um see I said this last year before the elections happened in the US presidential elections. I said this that I said that it was highly unlikely that Trump will win. But if Trump does win it will mean that he has kissed the ring which means that he has aligned himself with the deep state. Now whatever he's doing it may look like lunacy. I mean look at the way he's behaving with India. He has permanently lost the trust of India. Even after Trump is gone and there's some other US president, India won't trust the US. So does it is it like lunatic behavior? Is it crazy behavior? No. The US is now actively going to contain India. Whoever is the president because India is now showing the signs and symptoms of rising as a global power. India has never shown this before. From 1947 until 2014, India never showed any sign of rising of of having the ambition to rise as a global power. Not even in 1974 when we detonated a nuclear weapon. Not even in 1998 when we detonated five nuclear weapons. Even then we had no ambition. We're a we were a mediocre nation with zero ambition of any greatness. But from 2014 until now, India is becoming dangerous. So what Trump is doing makes sense from an American perspective. If he has set fire to the global economic order, that also makes sense from an American perspective. The American perspective is that we created an order. We created a global economic order that our enemies have exploited to to enrich themselves and make make themselves powerful. So we're going to dismantle the global order that we created and we're going to create a new order. So whatever he does he's doing it may look like lunacy but it makes eminent sense logically from a strategic perspective. So yeah he has this peculiarities and all that. His behavior is kind of weird. Um he is unlike any US president ever. He expects a lot of deference and all that. He wants to be treated like an emperor. All all those idiosyncrasies he has but overall whatever actions he's taking are exactly in synchronicity with what the deep state wants. So nothing lunatic about that. Galler says someone's metaphor I convey. The Anglo-Saxon can't hear a syllable you utter not until the first rumble from that caldera under its feet. wishful maybe but inquisitive still transfer the rumble and caldera to geopolitics. So calera means the the the the mouth of a volcano right the crater that is the vent of a volcano. Rumble is the the warning that comes from volcano before the earthquake or the before the eruption. That's what you're talking about. So the Anglo-Saxon can't hear a syllable you utter not until the first rumble from the caldera under its feet wishful maybe but inquisitive still what are you trying to convey is the question so the Anglo-Saxon doesn't care what you say blah blah blah talk talk until you act and until the act your actions have an actual consequences and they can start feeling the rumbles of the actions which means that you you are no longer just talking you are taking action and that and those actions will have some actual real world consequences That's when they start listening to you and paying attention to you. And then they can categorize you as potentially dangerous, potentially to be silenced or potentially to be eliminated or dealt with. Maybe that's what you're talking about in geopolitics. And when you when I say you, it means nations. So as long as India was preaching to the world blah blah, om shanti, nonviolence, etc., no one cared. No one cared. But now India is actually transforming itself economically and that is sending rumbles across the world and so on. So now they are paying attention to India and taking action against India. Right. Mera says was the student uprising in Gujarati hostel in Indra Gandhi tenor led by JP Narayan a prologue or trial run for future student revolution. I have absolutely no idea about this Gujarat hostel. I don't know. I'm I'm very sorry. And this is like Indian history we're talking about here. But I'm discussing geopolitics ma'am over here. Uh so even if I had the answer to the question, I would I I'm not taking geo history questions today. Uh we're discussing only geopolitics. I said that in the beginning and and even the title of this live stream is geopolitics. So um and anyway, I am not aware of this. There was a student uprising in a Gujarati hostel during Indra Gandhi's time led by JP Narayan. Now I'm not familiar with that part of history. Sorry. Very sorry. Okay. AKS Baga says, "Why don't you start a company to advise corporations on on current affairs and geopolitics just like the Eurasia group or Peter Zaham?" Well, that's an idea that will make me even more dangerous than I am right now and even more inconvenient than I am right now. Do Indian corporations need this? I mean they need this but are they aware of the fact that they need this the need for geopolitical forecasting in risk analysis? Oh, it's a it's an idea. It's a good idea you're giving here. Maybe I shall think about it seriously. Thank you for the idea. Maybe I may have thought of the idea actually, you know. Who knows? Rahul Lakshman says, "Maybe Starlink will be our link to the America Party long-term international relations. Perhaps Starlink needs to be removed from India. It is our link to nothing but Vasalhood." Okay. Uh, no America, no long-term international relations. Starlink is poison. Starlink is dangerous for India. It will empower anti-India elements. Nothing. There's no free gift in the world. There's no free service in the world. Even if the service is a paid service, still it has nefarious purposes. Starlink needs to be removed from India. It should never be operationalized in India. That is my sincere advice to the government of India. Divor Singh says, "I personally did not face any racism here in the US. In fact, the US right-wing people liked me. But is it good for Americans if H-1B visa holders go back? Is it good for Americans? Okay, I'm glad you did not face any racism. That's good. Right-wing people lie to you. Well, I'm glad to hear that. Fine. Okay. Now, is it good for the US if H-1B visa holders go back? I mean, what percentage of American job openings do H-1B visa holders even take? I must I'm just guessing out here but I'm guessing it's about 2 3%. So of let's say you have a 100 hypothetically 100 job openings in the US most likely only two or three of the job openings openings will actually go to H1B visa holders. So that's a minuscule percentage first of all but what kind of jobs do H1B visa holders do? Generally they do extremely important jobs. They are generally involved in in technical operations in the uh in generally typically in the field of IT. Uh they handle the IT operations for most Fortune 500 companies. Uh they are behind the work for they are a significant component of the workforce in Silicon Valley and various American tech corporations and startups. So even though the number of jobs is a small percentage of the overall US job market, even even then the kind of work they're doing is critical for for for the US. So if you send these people back, obviously you're going to replace them with Americans, but then the expenditure shoots up, right? So, I am expecting that the H-1B visa holders, they'll be phased out gradually in a way that it's not going to cause any shocks to American fortune 500 companies or startups or or tech giants. Um, so I don't think the H1B visa holders are going to going to be evicted overnight. If they are evicted gradually, it will happen slowly. It'll be a slow process. Uh the fact that you're going to have to pay $100,000 for each H1B visa application going forward itself tells you that H1B visa holder I mean H1 there's going to be way fewer H1B visa applications that will come in in the first place. uh so overall they are slowly phasing this this visa out and it's it should the objective is to target Indians mainly because Indians make up about 70% of the H-1B visa uh applications and and the H1B visa holders who are currently in the US um so if if if the H1B visa holders go back overnight it's going to be catastrophic for the US but if they are phased out gradually as will most likely happen then the US will be able to adjust and and uh yeah things will become more expensive for the fortune 500 companies and most likely those jobs will will be offshored. So let's say let's say you are a US company and you have let's say a thousand for example H1B visa folks who work for you. Now it's going to be super expensive to renew those visas and so on. So if I was running that that company I would simply offshore those jobs to Bangalore or Hyderabad or somewhere. So I'll start a branch of my company in Bangalore or Hyderabad. I'll hire a thousand Indian IT personnel there at higher rates than what Indians generally expect but way lower than what American workers have to be paid. So it's a win-win for me. That's that's most likely what will happen. YouTube says, "Is there any Russian lobby in Israel like Israeli lobby in the US?" Not that I'm aware of. I don't I'm not aware of any. Dan Dave says really is not reality is not enough Americans for STEM jobs in the US. Most most STEM courses in universities have 90% plus international students. Yes. Very few Americans. They got to be okay with jobs being outsourced I guess. Yeah. The reality is if you go to any STEM if you go to any major American university or even non- major US university even if it's a university that's not in the top 100 in the US and you go to their STEM departments you know physics or chemistry or or biotechnology or whatever a significant portion of the students are non-Americans lots of Indians everywhere you go to any American university or college campus you'll see Indians all over the place Indian kids Indian students Um, so you're right. Most STEM courses in in universities have 90% plus international students, very few Americans. So, so even if you get rid of the H-1B visa holders, where are you going to find the the Americans who will take over in those in those STEM jobs? That's the question. So then the alternative is to outsource the jobs. That's the only alternative that remains until you revamp your education system and bring in more Americans uh who go through the STEM courses which which is going to take years if not decades even even and that to assuming that they they start the the overhole of the education system and and stop bringing in foreigners and and push more Americans into that. So the only alternative is to outsource the jobs which means that the American companies instead of bringing in H1B visa holders are going to outsource the jobs to places like like Hyderabad or or Bangalore or maybe Manila or or wherever else right and they're going to have people working there and that's what so so the if you if the objective is to have more jobs uh being taken over by Americans well it's not going to happen right? So they have they're going to have no option but to outsource the jobs and yeah I agree with you about this. Uh Divor says is genocide inherently bad through what line of morality do we get that if India did what Israel is doing right now will Dharmx be okay with it? So are you saying Israel is doing a genocide right now? Uh I am not aware of what's happening in in Gaza or whatever. Some people are saying that Israel is conducting genocide. I don't know. Uh there are conflicting reports that come out of the place. The Israelis are saying that we are simply defending our nation and the Palestinians are are terrorists and we've got to kill the terrorists and if there is some collateral damage then sad is said. Um and and what's the definition of genocide? Is it like a thousand people? Is it 10,000 people? Is it 50,000 people? Is it 100,000 people? Is it a million? Where does the line start? There's no definition. Anyone can call anything genocide. But now the question you're asking is, is genocide inherently inherently bad? Well, are we going into the realms of moral relativism here? That's a philosophical concept. Is are some genocides good and are some evil? I mean, is that is it like that? I think we have to take a clear stand that killing people is evil. But then the question is all people aren't the same. Some people are terrorists. What are you going to do with them? So I'm not sure what line of I would say killing unarmed people is wrong. Killing civilians is wrong. But what if those civilians are harboring terrorists? In that case I would say you reclassify the civilians as active combatants if they are harboring terrorists and empowering terrorists. So in that case is Israel really doing something bad. I mean after all the they did implement the two-state solution the Israelis by giving over self self- administration rights and privileges to the people of Gaza but what did the people of Gaza do with that with that freedom the Israelis gave them they elected Hamas and empowered Hamas and launched all kinds of attacks on Israel as a consequence because they want the land to be free from the from the river to the sea which means that they believe Israel has no right to exist. Israel says, "We're going to exist. Deal with it, and if you're going to resist us, we're going to do whatever it takes." So, who's right? Who's wrong here? I would say Israel has the right to defend itself. I would say that what happened in 2023 was a terrorist attack, a heinous, barbaric terrorist attack. But the Palestinians will say that the Israelis have been oppressing us for so long that we had no option. So, I don't know where's the right, where's the wrong. The world is complicated. There's no black and white in the world. It's all shades of gray. I would say that what's your morality depends on who you are. Everybody is going to have a different definition of morality. Yeah. Some people will say genocide is good. Some some people will say that. Some cultures will say that genocide is okay as long as we are killing people who are not part of our religion or culture. Some religions and cultures believe in that. Right? I mean the Anglo-Saxons genocided the Native Americans. They said that the genocide was good. They were barbarians. They were fighting all the time. So we killed them off. and this is our land now. Maybe that genocide is bad is is good from their perspective. I don't know. If India did what Israel is doing right now, will Dharmics be okay with it? Um I'm not sure what is the ter definition of Dharmics? Is anyone who has a birth certificate that says Hindu is that person is are all those people dharmic? Most of those people have no connection with dharma anymore. They are dassinated. They have no connection. They don't even know what Dharmic philosophy is. Right? So I think dharmic would actually mean the people who actually understand what dharma is and that's very few Indians today. Will they be okay with it? I think dharma says that you have the right to defend yourself and you have to the right to to def to destroy a dharma. So dharmics will be okay with it if they actually understand dharma. But the people who are Hindu nominally in name they may be against it. It's very possible. Say yeah. Vivik Singh says got to know that H closed the Sukoy MKI assembly line in 2018 itself. What's wrong with the babos? It could have helped today in managing our strength. That's why the country cannot be run by babus. And the question also arises that how can babus take the decision bureaucrats and was the government not aware of this? See, I I I don't delve into these matters and I don't know what the hell is happening. Did HL close the Sukoy? Let let's let's fact check this. Okay. Uh H A L S U 30 MKI Assembly closed 2018. Um no did not close in 2018. HL was building in 2018 while a decision. So this is Swaraj mag that more orders might might be in the pipeline and so on. Closed or not? Is the assembly line closed or not? No, it's not closed. They won a contract in late 2024 to produce 12 new Sukoy MKI aircraft under license and HL has proposed submitted proposals for resuming production etc. HL's Nashik division also continues to repair and overhaul the SU30s in service. And here it says HL will take 24 months to restart. The Nashik factory has been shut for 12 24 months. So we're getting conflicting so information over here. I'm not sure what the truth is. I I cannot comment right now. It'll take me some more time to do a proper facteing. But it looks like there could be issues and these issues typically are potentially hypothetically caused by bureaucrats. So yeah, bureaucrats need to be held in tight tight leash by the government of India. That's very important. Bureaucrats their only job is to carry out instructions, not to become decision makers as such. Right? Uh says USA is bullying you. Why don't India ask me for help? Because you see they are bullying you even more. I'm sorry to say sir, they are bullying you even more. They have imposed a million sanctions on you for the past 20 30 years. Uh Israel just bombarded you and hammered you unfortunately and the Americans obviously were perfectly happy with that. The Americans have tried their best to freeze your nuclear uh enrichment program. Donald Trump bombed your nuclear nuclear enrichment program recently a few weeks ago. Right? So you are being bullied way worse than us. Right? You are at the receiving end very badly and you are considerably less powerful than us. So with the the highest of respect, why would we ask you for help, sir? Right. Why would we ask you for help? Logically. Okay. Pushan says, "Was Nvidia likely bullied in buying a stake in Intel?" I have no idea. Can't answer the question. I haven't looked into this. Sorry. Balra Singh, thank you very much sir. Thank you sir. Okay. DVN Singh says LGBTQ is used as a geopolitical tool sometimes but but mostly internal politics. Did LGBTQ exist in ancient India? How should we think about it? Look LGBTQ is indeed a thing. No I mean what is LGBTQ? First of all, lesbian uh gay, bi-gender, no bisexual, transgender and queer. So that is that in ancient Indian India there would have been some um homosexual people. I suppose I've seen some one or two carvings of some homosexual acts somewhere, you know. So clearly it did exist in India and you will sadly for the liberals you will find not a single text in India's enormous literary realm where there is a single reference to any kind of demonization of of of homosexual people. Nothing at all. And there is no mention of homosexual people or homosexuality that I know of. So clearly homosexuality did exist and nobody did anything about it. It was allowed to exist. India has always always had this culture live and let live. As long as you are not interfering in my life and as long as you're not causing any harm to society, you you live your life. You do you do you. We don't care. That's always been India's approach. And you will not find a single text anywhere in India that that has any kind of demonization of of uh homosexual people. Now, LGBTQ, lesbian, gay, transgender, blah, blah, blah. I'm not sure of all that all of that spectrum business happened in India. I'm not sure about that. Um, it probably did exist in India. Homosexuality at least. How should we think about it? We should think about it as something that existed that we didn't care about. We did not glorify it or exalt it. We did not mention it, which means it would have been some kind of fringe thing in the society. and uh it it existed and we didn't care about it. That's it. So no oppression and and no glorification. We simply it must have been regarded as some kind of fringe behavior and let it be. Let them do what they're doing as long as they don't harm society. That's how it was. Divor Singh says USA has bought a stake in Intel. Does it make Intel an arm of the US military? Um everything is an arm of the US military. Google is an arm of the US military. Alphabet is a arm of the US military. Uh all these AI companies are arms of the US military. And now they've officially taken a stake in Intel, right? Uh someone asked just now about Nvidia. Was Nvidia bullied into buying a stake in Intel? I'm not aware of the Nvidia thing, but the US has taken at least a 10% stake, right? the US government in uh Intel 10% or or more. I'm not I don't remember the exact figure. So if they have officially taken a stake, it means that Intel is now obviously clearly an arm of the US government and the US military and overall all these US corporations, tech corporations, they are de facto uh geopolitical tools of the US. And see in 2010 when Edward Snowden leaked out that prism program P R I SM prism what was what he revealed is that all the US tech firms of that time were sharing intelligence with the US government in real time and uh the nations that were the most under surveillance the at the top spot was India in 2010. So even if the US has not acquired stakes in all these tech giants, they were still sharing whatever information the US government wanted with the US government in real time. So even if a stake is not acquired, the US tech giants are still um an extension of the US government's geopolitical policy and military policy. Geopolitical Dubet says, "Has the US operationalized its hypersonic missile? I'm not sure. I'm sure they have some kind of hypersonic missiles. Um, look, first of all, they they have ICBMs and so on which are not hypersonic. They are like they they they their speeds are re-entry speeds. So there is supersonic which is Mach 1, Mach 2, there's hypersonic which is M 5, M 6, M 7 and there's re-entry speeds which is MK 20 plus. So the US has re-entry speed missiles which is ballistic missiles. Um, do have they operationalized hypersonic missiles? They have hypersonic missiles under development. I don't remember the exact names of the missiles, but uh I'm not sure if they've operationalized those. As far as I know that the the fastest hypersonic missiles in existence are the Tircon and the Kinjaw, which are the Russian missiles and uh eventually the Brahos 2 will become one of those and the Brahos one right now which we we use it's a supersonic missile M 2, Mach 3, right? So yeah, I'm not sure about the exact uh status of whatever hypersonic missile development is happening in the US. MK says Pakistan is militarily gearing up against India or resuming operation Synindur now is crucial because the US would sanction any time now or in the future. The moment we start a war with Pakistan or or a military operation, the US will impose sanctions now on India or they will take some very strong action against India and the Americans will over time strengthen the Pakistani military and make it like almost as powerful as India or at least as powerful enough that they can withstand an operation Synindhur like situation and potentially cause much more harm to India. So that's why this this uh pact has happened between Pakistan and Saudi Arabia. The Americans will now route military equipment and funding through Saudi Arabia into Pakistan. So it's it's going to be a tough situation for India. Um if you want to end the Pakistan threat, I think the longer we wait, the more dangerous and more difficult it will become for India. So yes, I agree with you there. AKS Baga says, "My thoughts on the 4 billion deal to buy the P8 Poseidon. We need to scrap that deal. We cannot buy any American defense equipment. It's poison. It'll be used against us. It can it will have back doors. It will have kill switches and so much more. I think it makes no sense for India to acquire even a screwdriver from the US anymore. So, end Starlink, end all these programs. Whatever money has flown under the bridge, forget about it and move on. Ritwick says you are my second favorite YouTuber of Tanish Rajput. Okay, thank you sir. He said Balojasthan wanted to join India and sign document of accession. I said that many years ago. Uh what but when Pakistan attacked them, India refused to help them. Is it true? Look this is a historical question but yes Balojasthan the Khan of Kalat I must have made videos about this in 2021. The Khan of Kalat had signed the instrument of accession and he had sent it to Prime Minister Neu. Mr. Neu rejected that. Okay. And after that, Jina ordered the invasion of Balojasthan and Balojasthan was annexed by Pakistan and India refused to do a thing about it. Entirely true. Entirely true. This is a matter of historical record. So Kalat is was was one of the major princely states in Baljasthan and they wanted to have nothing to do with Pakistan. They wanted to join India. Right? So it's entirely true. Yes. Divor Singh says is an individual a unit of society or is a family a unit of society? If family then nuclear family or joint family it depends on the nature of the society and what you want to achieve with your society. If you look at the the philosophy of and the the philosophy of and s and so on they will say that the individual is is the unit of the society. Yes. So the western perspective the Anglo-Saxon perspective also is such that the individual is the unit of society. Among the Europeans you have different cultures. The Anglo-Saxons are the most individualistic of the Europeans. I do a thought experiment if you can not a thought no do an actual real life experiment if you can do it. Spend some time in England and if possible spend some time interacting with people going to their house spending time with their family and see how the interactions between the family members are. Then go to France, spend time if you have friends, go to someone's house and see how they interact with their elders and children and see the differences. Go to France, go to Germany, go to various European nations. You will find that in continental Europe, the the European people have a high regard for elders. Not as much as people in the subcontinent do. In the subcontinent, we literally touch the feet of our elders. We worship our elders like literal gods right in India especially parents and grandparents and so on or family elders in Europe there is still some vestige of that people still treat elders with with respect and and defer to elders in England in the Anglo-Saxon world they treat elders like rubbish they call them by their first name and they they'll make fun of them they mock their elders right so in So there's there's differences in society and you will realize this if you spend time in these societies. So in Europe which is now dominated by the Anglo-Saxons and their their their worldview the individual is the unit of society. In the Europe in the US also the individual is regarded as the unit of society. Um and you will see Vak Ramaswami saying that the nuclear family is the greatest thing that the west has done and all. um historically in Asia in Asian cultures I'm not just talking about dharmic cultures even confusion culture and all the family and not just the family but the extended family was the was the unit of society that's a more cohesive society right so it depends on the culture it depends on the civilization if it's a civilization India China Japan we are civilizations the west whatever it is they call themselves western civilization but they regard the individual as the unit of society in India historically ally the extended family was the unit of society and also in China also in various Asian cultures. So it depends on the context the milu the social social and civilizational con context if there is one anonymous scientist says Israel has developed a laser iron beam defense system. Should India talk to Israel for getting such systems? It can take out cheap packed drones. We have also developed a laser based uh okay directed energy weapons right let's let's let's look into this we have developed one too uh India directed India India directed energy weapon there was news recently uh the MK2A 30 kowatt laser based directed energy weapon capable of neutralizing drones and surveillance sensors developed by DRDO the system can disable aerial threats ranges over 3 km which is like the jeepack drones uh by cutting through through targets with a powerful laser beam. India is now one of the few countries globally with this advanced anti- drone technology with plans for more powerful 50 to 100 kowatt variants and potential future satellite and maritime applications. So I don't think we see Israel is our wonderful partner and friend and uh we have developed uh jointly developed systems like the Barak missile and and so on. We are also uh manufacturing Israeli designed Harop drones in India. The Adani uh the Adani um um company is is doing that and so on. But we have directed energy weapons. So let's let's compare that with the Israeli laser iron uh you know iron defense. So Israel Israel Israel Israel laser laser I laser iron beam kilo. Let's see. It's a 100 kilowatt laser uh laser that is part of the ironb iron thing whatever they have. Then we currently have a 30 kow system. Okay. Amp it up to 100 kow. Once you have an operational 30 kow system, it's not going to be that difficult now to amp it up to 100 kow. You've already done the hard work by developing the system. Now all you have to do is make it is make it more powerful. So I don't think we need to um seek Israeli help in this matter. Israel is definitely a nation with whom we have a tremendous amount of strategic convergence and and synergy and there's so much potential in the India Israel relationship. But in this matter we are not lacking in technology. So we're going to be able to do it on our own. Okay. AKS BA says did the US hide heroh's war crimes in China, Korea, etc. Was Hirohito really in charge of things? You have to ask yourselves this. Why was Hirohito not executed? Why was he allowed to stay on? H this goes back to the major restoration. The major restoration was this tremendous transformation of Japanese society and governance. They destroyed the old samurai system. They killed off the samurai, the traditional guardians of Japan, the vegetarian fish eating, beef abhoring defenders of Japan, the Buddhist, Hindu Buddhist, they say Buddhist, but they they incorporated lots of elements of Hinduism. The the samurai, they tried to portray Hinduism as a foreign religion. And the the the major restoration was a coup against the emperor. So you had a 16-year-old or or teenage emperor who was then propped up as a puppet as a figurehead. But the real power lay in the hands of the ministers and they transformed Japan into an into an imperial hegemonic expansionist power, a non-harmic power. They made the emperor eat beef in public to make the whole of Japan beef eating, right? And they did the war crimes eventually in Korea, Japan, in Korea, China, etc. Hirohito was helpless. He was just a mere figurehead, a puppet. You understand? Now the Americans knew what the Japanese military had done. unit 3, what 230 or whatever the hell it was, they did all kinds of horrific medical experimentation. Why didn't the US publicized this very much? Why? Because the Americans made a deal with the Japanese military. You give us all your medical records that you have obtained as as part of this horrific human experimentation. Give us all the records. We'll let you go scot-free. No trial, no no no no no punishment, nothing. So the Japanese had done all kinds of horrific experiments. How long can a human be human being be kept alive in freezing water? What if the temperature is 4°? How long can a human survive? You take 10 subjects, put them in freezing water, 4° centigrade, and let's see how long it takes on average for their hearts to stop beating. Then do the same experiment with with 0° instead of 4°. then do it at -5°. That sort of horrific experimentation they did to see how long humans can survive cold water exposure at various temperatures. Very valuable information that the Americans took from the Japanese and in exchange for that they did not publicize these war crimes of the Japanese Imperial Army. Hirohito probably did not did not even know half the things that happened. the things that the Japanese military did in in Nanjing. The first time I saw I found out about naning, I think I I'm sure I do not eat for a couple of days. That's how horrific it was. Today, we are all immune to these horrific images that are are all around the internet. But the first time you see such a thing, it's like gh. So, we Americans benefited from this. They hate all these war crimes. Oh, wow. We have reached two hours. Please stop taking super chats. I need to end this now. soon as soon as possible whatever super chats exist I will obviously go through those but please don't take any more super chats thank you very much so says not a geopolitical question please comment on Dr. Uni Krishnan from TF TF are experimentally disproving Einstein's special relativity. I haven't seen this news. I don't believe it. Einstein's special relative. Who cares about special relativity? Try and disprove general relativity. People have been trying to disprove general relativity since 1915. Thousands of attempts have been made. If general relativity did not work, your GPS would not work. Do you know why why why things fall? Why why do you have weight? Why do you weigh 70 kilos or whatever it is that you weigh? It's because of the curvature not of space but of time. Mass curve is not just space but time. according to the Einstein field equations the temporal curvature is more than the the the spatial curvature and that's what was used in GPS satellites and GPS satellites perform precisely as per the equations the field equations of Einstein so all these stories of someone disproving general relativity or special relativity I don't believe it because I I have studied all this I understand how it works I don't believe Yes. Anyway, not a geopolitical question. Prashant says, "Time for AI minister like Albania for transparency." All right, sir. I will ask the government to consider that, sir. Thank you for the suggestion. Uh MK says, "Great powers vosalize or conquer neighboring states and political rivals or potential rivals. Given that Europe satisfies satisfies both, why didn't the British Empire attempt to do so? Great powers vaselize conquer neighboring states and potential rivals. Given that Europe satisfies both Europe was not that easy to conquer. The French were powerful enough. The French nearly wiped out the whole of Europe. Napoleon. Um so the deal was that we will conquer non-white races. It all starts with the treaty of Toresiat. The treaty of Tores. It it divided the world into two halves between Spain and Portugal, but not the white nations, the non-white nations, the non-Christian nations. Those were to be colonized and vasalized. Right? So eventually Britain became a major power much more than Spain or Portugal and the Treaty of Thoras went out of the window and Britain said, "I don't care if it's east or west. I'll conquer everybody." But it was only going to target non-Christian, non-white countries. Uh and of course in Europe you had other issues because Europe also was a technological advance and not that easy to conquer. It's a very good question. You're asking very interesting question as to why did Britain only conquer let's say uh Egypt and Africa and and the crown jewel was India and uh settle Australia after genociding the natives and so on. And why not do the same in Europe? Yeah. because of multiple reasons, multiple reasons, complicated reasons. First of all, these are all white countries. You don't do the same thing that you do the to non-whites to white people. Secondly, they were Europe was still definitely a capable of of defending itself, right? Across the English Channel of France. France was a formidable opponent, right? But France did not have the what's the polite term? did not have the the the the jean quality that the British have of conquering far away lands. The British understood power. The French did the French the way the French did not. How to conquer and colonize non-whites. The French were not that good. The British were far better. But the British were not capable of conquering and colonizing the French. Otherwise, it would lead to another 100red-year war or whatever. So, yeah. Divor Singh says why would America let its nuclear warheads fall in numbers against Russia? I think they still have their 2,000 the 25,000 and just lie. Entirely possible. These numbers that are put out in the public domain h that the US has 5,100 let's say and Russia has 5,800 nuclear warheads and China has 650 and France has 250 and India has 170 and Pakistan has 165. How on earth does the western media know these numbers? They went and asked Mr. Putin. Mr. Putin, how many do you have? Yes. See, I have six 5,800. Yes. Thank you. You going to believe that? Why would anyone diverge the real numbers? They went to Mr. Modi sir, how much do I have? 170. I mean, really, will Mr. Modi say that? How do they know how many nukes we have or Pakistan has? These are numbers that pull out of god knows where. So it's entirely possible that the US may have 25,000 and are lying. I completely agree with you sir. Dark knight says please explain the implications of the Saudi Pakistan alliance. Is it another geopolitical disaster for India? I may be a little too harsh. I'll tell you what it is. Let's say you are the overlord of the world and you have some neighbor some nations who are still not under your control. naughty nations. So what do you do? You want to contain those nations. China is a bad nation. Not under US control. Russia very naughty. Not under US control. India not even half as powerful as China but still being remaining independent. Let's deal with India first. Then we'll deal with the others. So what do you do to deal with India? You prop up Pakistan. But Pakistan got hammered by India in operation zindu 3 days. Visibly hammered. You saw all those missiles falling in and and hammering various air bases and whatnot, right? It it all came out on social media. You can't hide that Pakistan got hammered. What do you do then? You want to prop up Pakistan. You want to send them funds. You want to send them military equipment. So, so you talk to a different vasal of your Saudi Arabia. You tell them you are going to be the conduit for military equipment into Pakistan. Oh, if I directly send arms and funds to Pakistan, my public will ask me this is a terrorist nation who who harbored Osama bin Laden. So why is Donald Trump doing this? This is not why we voted for you. So Trump will then silently route it through Saudi Arabia and then you can blame Saudi Arabia if something goes wrong. So that's the implication. The implication is that the US is going to prop up Pakistan is going to strengthen Pakistan is going to supply Pakistan with funds and military equipment to make it as powerful as India. So that next time there is operation Pakistan may actually ostentially win this may take two three years to happen but let's say in two three years Pakistan may be made as powerful as India militarily in a from a conventional perspective that's the objective is it a disaster for India it is potentially disaster for India it doesn't mean that Saudi Arabia will fight against India if there's a war with Pakistan no Saudi Arabia will stay out but they will be the conduit through which all this funding and all this military equipment is routed into Pakistan So the US is essentially playing this game. They have this policy of containing India through encirclement. That is the deal. And why is it happening? It's because India matters now. Since 1947 until now, India has not mattered. But now India is India matters. So that's why this is the situation. Anonymous scientist says the US vasals UK, Canada and Australia have recognized Palestine. Is it a message to Trump or something else? They will not dare go against Trump. Maybe Trump himself has said that you guys can go ahead and do this so that we can play both sides of the game. Yeah, we I will have three of my vasals recognize Palestine, but I will recogn I will I will support Israel. So So this recognition is just words. Okay, it's nominal recognition. We hereby recognize Palestine, a nation that doesn't exist. But will the UK, Canada, and Australia actually fund the Palestinian movement? Will they supply weapons to them against Israel? They will not dare do such a thing. This is just words. Like I keep saying, like I keep saying over and over again, hundreds of millions of times, words and actions. Focus on the actions. Ignore the words. I don't care about the words. Yeah. Kajuru Thornne says, "What can the government of India do to extract maximum advantage from N's force to return if their skills and capital are not channeled? I fear they may they will become disgruntled, ready and willing Western agents. If you want to extract maximum advantage from NRIs who are potentially forced to return, you have to give them the same opportunities they sought when they escaped India." Why did they leave India? Because India did not give them the living standards they aspire for. They left India because they got far better opportunities to to flourish to explore their full potential, professional potential outside of India. India doesn't give you that. You don't get good living stands in India. You get all kinds of alleged corruption issues in India. There is no meritocracy in India. You don't get the job opportunities that you go go get outside in India. you don't you don't get the same salaries in India that you get outside of the outside of India in the US if you want to extract the maximum advantage you have to give them what they were getting in the US otherwise they will not come back to India they'll go somewhere else they'll go to Singapore they'll go to Australia they'll go to China they'll go to Russia they'll go to Germany they'll go to France they'll go to Italy they'll go somewhere else they'll go to the UK they'll go anywhere but come back to India and if they're forced to come back to India and they don't get those opportunities they're not going to be happy in India they're going to be very sad very very depressed people and you don't want people like that. You want people to be happy. You want talented people to be happy and in the right position in India. So that's what needs to happen otherwise. Yeah. Then we are wasting another opportunity. Project smiling Buddha says happy Navaratri to you and to everybody else. Happy Navatri to you sir and to everybody else as well. Happy Navatri. Thank you. Dur Singh says are some races and societies superior to others? Yes is all I'll say. Go says why can't the US make its permanent ally make India its permanent ally to counter China and Russia? Why can't they understand that India is a peaceloving country and won't fight the US even if it gets powerful? So what you're saying is let's let's deconstruct the logic. India is a peaceloving country. India won't fight the US even if India becomes powerful. So India should become an American permanent ally to counter China and Russia. Then the US will say you fight China and Russia and we'll fight. But aren't we a peace-loving country? Then why should we fight someone's war? Why don't we have any pride or self-respect? Or do we want to once again go down the East India Company road and become someone's facal? I want India to be no one's permanent ally. I want India to remain sovereign. And whoever deals with us in a respectful mutually beneficial manner, we shall have dealings, mutually beneficial dealings with them. We will be no one's vasal. You become someone's vasal. You are using the word ally. But when the Americans talk about allies, they're talking about vasals. Okay, understand that when the US uses the term ally, they are only referring to their vasals and we will be nobody's vasal. So it doesn't work like that. The US can't make India its permanent vasal because we are unwilling to be anyone's vasal. Uh Dn Singh says UK royal family are Germans and not British to a significant extent. Yes. Right. Um see all the European royal families are interrelated. If you see uh the last what was it the the the German the king of Germany before the first world war what's his name the Kaiser Wilhelm um let's let's Google that uh Kaiser um the king of Prussia uh what's he look like who was who was his predecessor So I don't remember exactly who it was, but you see the the king of England, he had this great resemblance to the king of Germany of the time. I forget which one was which and I'll not go and go and Google that and do the research. But uh these families are all all interconnected. For example, the mount battens, right? They are nobility. They are aristocracy. They're not royalty. But the mount batns are actually the battenburggs. Battenburggs. But during the first world war when Germany became the enemy, they changed their name from Batenburgg to Mount Batton. So many of these people are are of German origin ancestry. Iksbaga says, is it a policy of the US to have less nukes than Russia? Well, they claim to have a policy of having less nukes than Russia. They currently officially have less nukes than Russia, but who knows what the truth is. Maybe they have 10 times the nukes that Russia has. It's possible, right? I mean, why would you have a policy of being less weak than somebody when you have the ability to be more powerful? It's possible that they may secretly have more nukes than Russia, but they're just claiming to have less nukes. So, we don't know. Maybe they have more. Divining says, "The Westerners say that the tallest building in South Africa before the British came was built by termites, not humans. Were they that backwards? I have no idea." See, what happened in Africa is is is a tragedy. Not a tragedy. It's it's a horror. Africa was devastated by by the Europeans. There was this scramble for Africa in the 19th century. Before that the European explorers like Dr. Livingston and and Stanley and or whoever they they through a lot of personal hardship they went went and explored various parts of Africa and eventually you had people like Cecil Roads and and various other people who started the process of colonizing Africa. Southern Africa was colonized and eventually the Belgians colonized Africa. The Germans genocided some people in Western Africa. The French got into Africa. The English were all over the place and they destroyed Africa. And then the historians wrote that the Africans were a bunch of barbarians who were cannibals and bloodthirsty people and human sacrifice. So it made sense to destroy those kingdoms, right? But how can we trust the records, the historical claims of the people who destroyed Africa and then used history to justify the destruction? Maybe the Africans were super civilized, but just just not as dangerous as the whites were. They were maybe not as skilled in in genocide and massacres and violence as the as the Europeans were. So the Europeans did that and then they wrote history that the Africans were they they engaged in mindless human sacrifice and all kinds of human torture and they they're cannibals and so on. So that's why we had to civilize them. So I don't trust any of these European histories. The same way I don't trust the European histories of the of the Americas today, especially the the the the right-wing Americans, they justify their occupation of the land by claiming that the native Americans were barbarians. They were extremely cruel towards each other. They were in a perpetual state of warfare with each other. They never built anything of any value, which is why we had to we had to civilize them and we had to take over the land and then uplift them. So you know you can always use these justifications to to paper over what you have done which is genocide. So I don't know whether the Africans were I don't know if the Africans were that that backward the way the Europeans claim. Uh if you go to places like Zimbabwe for example, you will find the remnants of ancient large buildings that look like castles. Uh the kingdom of Zimbabwe for example. Um it looks like Africa had you know culture and history and today Africa if you go there the people look like they are totally univilized they have no way no understanding of how to how to you know how to govern a civilized society maybe because it's of it's a it's because of couple of centuries of abject poverty and complete dassination who knows Divor Singh says What was all that bohemian gloves grove stuff? Bill Clinton, Obama all went there. Some guys did a sting operation found many many powerful people go there. This is all about the deep state and so on. I don't know really about much about this. Um some place called Bohemian Grove where weird rituals are done allegedly and allegedly the most powerful people in the country go there for a retreat. I don't know maybe once a year. I don't know what what what intervals or whatever. And um maybe shady stuff happens there. I don't know, sir. I don't know. I've heard these rumors and stuff. I've also seen that alleged video that's come out of some kind of weird fire ritual happening somewhere. I don't know if it's Bohemian Bohemian Grove. I don't I don't see any US president there. I don't know. Could be could be anything. So the absence of evidence doesn't mean the evidence of absence, but it doesn't mean the other way vice versa also. So I don't know. I've heard of I've heard these rumors but I've not seen any evidence any clinching evidence. So can't say YouTube says western media intellects and veterans pedal the narrative of India turning authoritarian and fascist against under Modi. It's an is it an excuse for supporting Pakistan dictatorship? It's an excuse for doing in the future a regime change operation in India and also for supporting Pakistan dictatorship and so on. If if India is a fascist nation, then what's the evidence of it? What's the evidence? You have to show evidence of it. Right? If you said that India is a Nazi nation, for example, like some people claim, where are the godamn concentration camps? Where in the US? I can show you the concentration camps. They're called reservations, right? Where do you have concentration camps in India? So, these are all lies, but it's the justification for a future regime change operation in India. That's the deal. Uh Divor Singh says uncle H can actually be accredited as the father of our nation more than Gandhi. He destroyed the UK enough that they could not stay in India anymore to some extent you could say. So uh the main thing is that by the 1940s the UK had extracted everything of any real value that was left in India. All the gold, all the silver, all the minerals, all the value that could be extracted. India was totally poorized, beggarized. India's GDP had dropped to less than 2% of the world's GDP. When the British started their job, India's GDP was 30 plus% of the world's GDP, the the highest GDP in the world, highest share of the GDP in the world. So they took everything of value out of India. They extracted every last drop of blood out of India. By the by the 1940s, India's um life expectancy was 3132. India had nothing to contribute to the world anymore. GDP is less than 2% of the world's GDP. So eventually they they decided that it's not worth staying in India any anymore. There's nothing more that we can extract out out of this country. We'll have to spend more money supporting the country now than than the kind of value that we can extract out of India. So that's why let's just leave the country. So to some extent uncle H contributed to what happened to the but more than that I think it's the fact that there was nothing more left left to extract out of India. Rahul says is India being encircled because after Brazil and South Africa is India is the easiest to contain in bricks how can we blunt America's soft power this has nothing to do with bricks it's only to do with India itself it's not because bricks is a big deal or whatever it's because see right now there are five sovereign nations in the world the US Russia China India and Israel Israel is America's number one ally so the US will never do anything against Israel. So then the US is left with three nations. India, Russia, China. And Russia and China are are tougher nuts to crack. Russia is very powerful militarily, right? Russia can destroy the entire world with their nuclear arsenal. That's how powerful they are. So Russia you can't touch. Ukraine has been a disaster for the US. They hope that Ukraine would destroy Russia. It's been the opposite, right? Russia has become more powerful. China technological power and very big military the biggest navy in the world and uh once again you the the Americans don't want a war with China so then who's left it's India so let's break India first then we'll deal with these two after we dealt with India that's the deal so it's nothing to do with breaks it's to do with India only Jay Tiwari says Trump tariffs US debt inflation high is US in decline powers versus India post Modi who leads India to devel how many questions do you Sir, future outbreaks in it. Let's let's we'll take one question. I mean u is the US in decline? Not really. The US is at its peak at the peak of its military power and power projection. But culturally and and as as a society, it's kind of in decline. Yes. Who could lead Modi after post Modi? How do I know? We have some good leaders. Um the opposition has a great leader who they wish will come to power and and in the BJP we have some leaders multiple leaders who could potentially uh you know lead the country potentially after Mr. Modi whenever Mr. Modi decides to step down whenever it happens in the future. So you have you can think of several leaders in the BJP like Mr. Dind like Yogi Yogiat like Himantab Bishwa Sharma and I can think of three right now. I I may have missed some some of your favorite leaders in in not sure but yeah who knows it's too early to tell right now. Future of bricks in its currency I don't know right now. So right now there's no there's no talk of a bricks currency. We'll see if it happens in the future. Okay. Pawan says okay no nothing questions. Well anyway thank you sir. Thank you. Thank you Mr. Pawan. Thank you. Uh Dimnor Singh says why when is the face on rupee going to change? I want to see Ashok Raja Sudas Priti Raj even though he lost Rajar Ranjit Singh G even though that they took his son away indeed I would like to see some genuine leaders who served the country and its people I completely echo your sentiment sir I don't know when the face on the rupee is going to change I think it'll be changed when India is finally free of colonialism yeah it would be great to see the leaders you're mentioning on on the rupee coin indeed or the rupee note that will that will be the India is genuinely liberated from from the vestigages of colon colonialism. India is still deeply colonized, mentally colonized still even today and Indians don't even realize that. So yeah, what you're pointing out is is is a sign of that that that enduring colonization. Jal says, do you think the deep state wants to demolish the liberals considering the kind of war Trump has waged against them? No, the liberals are also part of the deep state. They all see the deep state controls both sides. Why will they demolish one side? Why? This is all make believe. This left versus right thing. Liberals versus conservatives. It's all make believe. It's all a show that they put on for your entertainment. No one's going to de demolish anything. Joy says, "Huge fan. Love your content. Keep it up." Well, thank you so much, sir. I really appreciate that. Thank you for being a member for 3 months. Thank you so much. AVM says why the sudden and disproportionate focus on encircling India and not China if the strategy is G2 then why not let let the latter worry about India's rise because if you leave India alone then the then then the then the world won't remain G2 it will become G3 in 20 years they don't want a G3 in 20 years if you allow India to keep on growing its economy at 76 6.5% per year for 20 years then in 20 years India becomes a different kind of beast and you don't want that then you can't have G2 it will be G3 at least so you don't want problems in the future if you are a mature responsible nation if you are a mature mature responsible empire you don't focus only on today you focus on what could happen in 20 30 years time you know take actions right now that's the reason why they are focusing on India it is not sudden and disproportionate it is from their perspective the right time to do the right thing. Divor Singh says most nationalist people in India are at a at a point in time where the doits of Chumbell after independence am I right? I am not sure about that. The doits of Chumbell uh that's like 1960s7s 80s and they had a kind of an independent kingdom of their own. Were they the most nationalist people in India at that point in time? I I'm not sure of that. I have I've not really looked into that part of our history. Who are the DOIs? The only one I can name is Fulen Dvi who became a politician who was gunned down tragically eventually. Uh beyond that I'm not aware of the history. Sorry sir. And Dn Singh again says was the first independence fighter Baba Hanuman Singh Nihang or Mangal Pande? I think I don't know where the where the independence fight starts. We've had a fight for independence going on for 11 1200 years. We've had see the first invasion attempted invasion of India was in the 700s which is uh Muhammad Ibin Kasim. Raja Dahir fought him if I recall correctly and he was the first independence fighter and then you had so many kingdoms, kings, queens who fought the Turks eventually fought the Europeans, the British, the Portuguese, the French, the spa, not the Spanish, the Spanish never came to India and so on. So I'm not sure I'm I'm you know there were millions of independence fighters who laid their lives down and we will never remember that. Where's the monument to these people? There has to be at least some monument to to the un to the to the unknown, unnamed, nameless freedom fighter who died. Millions of them died fighting for for the freedom that we enjoy today. So I am sure there were people who laid their lives down for us who came before Baba Hanuman Singh Dihung or Mangal Pande. uh not to take anything away from Baba Hanuman Singh Nihang or Mangal Pand and whoever else but we only focus on a few names don't we we only focus on a few names and I don't want to take those names right now but the point is that there are millions who were killed in the aftermath of 1857 in the 10 years after 1857 the British hanged 10 million Indians from trees right who's going to remember them. Mangal Pande is the is the spark that set of off 1857, but there were people before that also. So yeah, I don't know who's the first independence fighter. They were all equally important. All of them laid their lives down. A life is a life, man. Come on. So yeah, I can't really name any one person as the as the spark who set everything off. Yeah. Spade says the south Saudi Arabia Pakistan pact raises the question of who's primary who it's primarily aimed aimed at India or Israel with the US traditionally their security guaranter stepping back who says they're stepping back so this is what people are being told to believe that the US is no longer able to provide security for Saudi Arabia which is what Saudi Arabia is going to Pakistan for security that is what they you what is that's what they want you to leave. What they don't want you to understand is that the US has engineered this pact. The objective is to route military equipment and funding into Pakistan through Saudi Arabia. That's all. Okay? There's no other recalibration or anything. DN Singh says, why don't we have our own second amendment gun laws? We need weapons in case there's a tyrannical government. Before 1857, all Indians could carry weapons. And sometime after 1857, the British brought in this arms act or whatever which prohibited Indians from carrying weapons. All warrior class people or even merchants or whoever they were free to carry everybody, every Indian was free to carry weapons for self-defense. And today because of a law the British passed, Indians don't have the right to carry weapons. I think it is an abomination. I think Indians should have the same rights that that they had before the British occupation. Why do we still have laws that were passed during the British occupation that govern India? So maybe I don't know about guns. Uh well, when it comes to guns, guns, they they are a force multiplier, aren't they? I don't know. I mean some Indians are allowed to carry weapons. For example, the Sikh people, they they have the right to carry weapons. Even the people of Korg for example, they have the right to carry guns and and and swords and stuff. So if some Indians are given the privilege, why not the rest of the Indians? Let everybody carry weapons, I would say. Maybe don't allow them to carry guns, not no firearms, maybe your traditional weapons. I don't know. It's a complicated thing. It's a complicated thing. Maybe it'll create more problems in India. Maybe it'll cause less problems. I don't know. Uh maybe the the disarmed people will will finally have something to defend themselves with in some situations. Overall, I think that historically for thousands of years, we had the right to carry weapons. I think that right should be restored. But then it will uh it will change political equations and what and much more. So that's why the politicians who benefit from the way the system is right now, they would not want things to change. And that kind of explains a lot of things. Okay. AKS Baga says, "Why are majority Chinese Americans so anti-China?" Who says that? Really, there are so many Chinese Americans who have been arrested for spying for China. I'm not sure about this, sir. I'm not sure about this. And even if some some of them pretend to be anti-China, I'm not sure about that. Okay. Okay. Dur Singh says 250 million Americans and many guns, automatic machine guns, even flamethrowers and tanks are personally owned and thousands of rounds of ammunition per house. I argue the US public will defeat the army. It is possible and maybe the army will not want to fight the population. Maybe they will stop taking orders if they are ordered to like do wholesale warfare against the people of America. So that's the thing, right? That's the reason the the US has the second amendment or whatever it is, the the right to bear arms and Americans have all these weapons, really advanced AR rifles and AKs and whatnot, M16s with those modified barrel things that that kind of transform the the weapon into kind of an automatic weapon. I'm not sure if it's been outlawed after the Las Vegas thing or not, but yes. Um the point is that Americans have a tremendous amount of weaponry, firepower, ammunition and let's say there is there is a conflict between the people and the government for example hypothetically and the government orders the the police and the army for example to fight the people. Will the police and the army fight the people? It's your own people, right? That's also is a question. So yeah, hypotheticals and speculations but interesting thought experiments. Um, and even if the army does fight, it's possible the if you're fighting a urban war and rural rural wars and whatnot, the American public potentially could defeat the army and then there would be a new American revolution possibly. Divor Singh has this big doubt which I saw last time also that Anglo-Saxons are the actual rulers. Who knows who the actual rulers are? You never know who who it could be, sir. Okay. Is it a coincidence that the state with the most Jews is the most antinational state? Now, I'm not aware of this. Which state has the most Jews? You're talking about the US, I'm sure. Which American state has the most Jews and is it the most? I I don't know. I don't know about this. Abilov Kulkarnney says thoughts on big dev deep but big developed but but irrelevant nations in GP what's GP big developed but irrelevant nations in GP what is a GP I know United Nations what is a GP sorry sir I don't get it I maybe I'm not intelligent enough says do you think Pakistani nukes been shifted to the US or Saudi Arabia. Who knows? I believe without evidence, I don't have the evidence to back what I'm saying. But I believe that the Pakistani nuclear weapons are actually American nuclear warheads on loan to Pakistan. I don't think the Pakistani scientists were capable of building of developing nuclear weapons. I think those Pakistani nukes are actually American nukes. Now, is it possible they have been moved to the US or Saudi Arabia? Who knows? you have we have seen um American um military aircraft transport aircraft coming to Pakistan on a few occasions. Uh it's been noticed in the past few weeks. So why do you need to send gigantic transport aircraft and they said that they they send the transport aircraft to to uh to move some uh to to to deliver some relief materials to Pakistan or whatever. But they won't go possibly potentially go back empty. They may take something back with them. Who knows? So maybe So do I think this has happened? I don't know. I have no idea. Is it possible? It's possible. Maybe some of them may may have been moved to the to the Saudi Arabian uh territory or something. Maybe back to the US. I have no idea. It is certainly possible, but I don't know about it. Bangu. Sig says, "Can India ever match Israel's global leverage?" Uh not anytime soon. Israel has global leverage because the US is Israel's number one supporter for us to match Israel's global leverage we would need America to become to become our number one supporter which is not going to happen anytime soon so right now not possible not anytime soon daily dose of gaming is saying saying your take on literally upcoming higher act on likely upcoming higher act US what on earth is let's find out higher act US what is this h i r the ACTUS um higher act 25% outsourcing tax impact expire Kotak securities I don't know what this is I've not seen what a 25% outsourcing tax could mean for Indian IT stocks a sweeping new bill that could shake up blah blah blah hire act what does it do seeks to impose a 25% tax on payments made to foreign firms for services consumed in the US these outsourcing payments covering fees royalties service charges would also lose a tax deductibility and so on. Go away. Okay. So that could certainly affect India. It could certainly affect India's IT exports because India is the primary IT services export exporter to the US and it would make Indian IT services less uh attractive and and and uh yeah so it could certainly impact Indian IT exposure to the US. So overall, it's about cutting off the American dependence on India's exports. They're trying to completely delink India and the US. So yes, it will certainly potentially affect India's GDP and and much more potentially. Godliness says we can't take on the US as we as a state have limited resources and 1.4 billion people to feed. Hypothetically, if you are the NSA, what suggestions would you give to the PM to navigate the situation? If I'm the national security adviser, I would suggest that make Yeah, we uh we can't take on the US. No question. We have to keep our heads down. Don't be aggressive. Don't make big statements. Keep your goddamn mouth shuts. Mouths shut. Keep a low profile. Don't Don't make provocative statements everywhere. Don't respond and retaliate to American provocations or any provocations. ramp up the military expenditure to 5% of the GDP. Right now it's less than 2% I'm sure. Ramp it up to 5% or for the next 20 years. Develop Indian jet engines. Develop all kinds you know acquire at least 50 submarines including nuclear submarines. Uh create a navy over the next 20 years that has genuine distributed lethality. A numerically strong navy. maybe 300 400 warships of different kinds. Um ramp up the number of aircraft we have, fighter planes. For that we need indigenous jet engines or jet engines we produce in India. So all of these things need to be done and we really have to arm ourselves with the teeth while developing the Indian economy. So to develop the Indian economy, we have to become a manufacturing based economy. uh and maybe we can become an internally consumption-driven economy based on the kind of tax reforms we're doing and so on. So a lot needs to be done and that's what I would suggest. I think we need to ramp up our our defense expenditure to about 5% of the GDP for the next 20 years. That is that is I think very important. Keeping it at less than 2.5% is going to be not good at all. And we need to become a leader in the space sector which is going to be an investment that will be really really going to it's going to really pay off dividends in the future. Not right now. Right now it will look to most people like a waste of money but by the 2040s it's going to be something that will be really valuable. So that's another thing I would do. Okay. Abida Singh says can you do a book signing session when you have the JPO dialogue summit or justly most of us would love it. Well, I can do it when I have physical books. Right now, I am serializing the book in the electronic form, right? The black holes book. Once all the chapters are done and the entire book is compiled together with all the resources, all the references, with all the editing done, then I will have it published, which will happen next year. Right now, I don't have physical copies. So, at this Japo dialogue summit, it won't be possible. Next year, next year's Jeep dialogue summit. Oh, I will have some books to um do a book signing s session or whatever. So when the books come out in the physical form, I will do it. See, books take time to produce. You can do these live streams every day. If if I want, I can do it. But producing a book is a timeconsuming, slowmoving affair. I can't bring out books at breakneck speed like one book in a week. No, a book will take minimum four to 6 months to pro to produce because you have to do it properly. You have to do good do a good job. You can make mistakes while speaking. You can't leave mistakes in books. So that is a different story. You see books take time. But whenever the books are done and lots of books are going to come out from me. I've got 20 30 40 books in me. All of those will come out. So you will have lots of book signing sessions and I I'll I look forward to meeting all of you in these. Right. So anyway, thank you for the suggestion, sir. Thank you. Godliness says, "Being an Indian, this is the second time I'm nominating you for the PUDAM awards." When you when you get one, please don't forget me. I have first nominated you. Thank you so much. I'm not sure if I deserve Padma award, but thank you so much. I'm I'm really grateful and I'm really humbled that you have chosen to nominate me for that. Thank you so much and I won't forget you if I ever won win a PUDMA award. Thank you so much, sir. Godliness, I'll remember. Dur Singh says, "Amazing session today." Thank you so much sir. You're very kind sir and it's always fun to to field your questions sir. Thank you. Uh DN Singh says does tradition do traditional gender roles help the society? They do. They do. Call me old-fashioned called me traditionalist called me whatever conservative traditions exist for a reason. So I would say traditional gender roles help society. They maintain society the way it is. Not just the way it is, they ensure stability in society. Societal institutions exist for a reason. Do you want strife in society? Do you want people wandering around like headless chickens? Do you want people fighting each other for for no reason whatsoever? For no good reason whatsoever? Why why do various institutions uh and and and traditions exist in society? Why does the institution of marriage exist? All of these institutions exist for a reason because we've our societies have evolved over tens of thousands of years and certain things have made societies more stable than other things and today those things may look like superstitions but the moment you break those things you will understand the consequences. I would say that the the traditional gender roles, traditional institutions like marriage, traditional institutions like extended families etc. they are very important in stabilizing society and in forming the the the the basis the bulv war the foundation of of a true civilization. So I think it's very important says should there be equality of opportunity or equality of result only of results. I I firmly believe that you should have equality of opportunity and you can never guarantee equality of results. If you try to do that, you are handicapping your society permanently. You should have equality of opportunities. You can never guarantee equality of equality of reserve results. There is no equality of people. No two people are equal. They all have all no two people have the same attributes. So you can never guarantee if you have meritocracy if your societ so society is a meritocratic society you can never guarantee equality of results. If you want to guarantee equality of results you have to do do that through through artificial means like reservations and whatnot which demoralizes society. So there should be equality of opportunity not equality of results. You can have a safety net of some kind because some people may not be able to well survive on their own for example. Well keep a safety net for people such people but you can't guarantee equality of results says do you feel appropriately appreciated for all the knowledge you give out I think I am tremendously appreciated there are people who who choose to come and and watch these live streams uh there are people who choose to come and ask me questions what more appreciation can I ask for it's a privilege if one person chooses to spend even 2 minutes of the time listening to what you have to say and I've got like 2 something people watching right now. I am tremendously appreciated and I can ask for nothing else. I think I'm I'm a very privileged person and I never take this for granted. I am very very grateful that people actually spend the time to listen to what I have to say. I I think I'm blessed. I think I am I'm amazingly appreciated and I thank all my viewers for that. Thank you so much. Ramsh Kalem says uh why and how did you did US fail? didn't foresee prevent China from growing to its current size, strength and like how they are trying to do with India now assessment failure. I think the US was overconfident. I think Nixon and Kissinger believed that if we bring China, if we integrate China into our westernled economic order, then China as they grow more prosperous, they will naturally become a more democratic nation. that by the time China is a reasonably pro prosperous society, they'll be a democracy just like us and we'll be able to democratize China. That was their belief and they were so misguided in that. So their assessment was entirely incorrect. China reverted to its old imperial system. They became even more imperialistic over time as they as they became uh as as their economy grew. And by 2008 or something the Americans realized they had made a major mistake. And by 2012 Chinese China's behavior changed entirely. You know that that wolf warrior behavior and all that which which went on for about close to a decade. So it was a major assessment failure. The Americans aided and abetted and midwifed the rise of their major rival today. Huge huge mistake and they won't repeat that mistake with India. Pratam says can you explain the nature of power in more detail I have to write a book for that you can't explain the nature of power basic nature of power okay political power like Maungum said flows out of the barrel of a gun which means that whoever has the capacity to unleash violence is powerful and the amount of powerful the amount of power you have is directly proportional to the amount of violence you can unleash on demand you don't have to unleash the violence you need to have the capacity to unleash it. That's political power. Let's say I have 3,000 gundas at my disposal. I don't unleash them on the people, but I have them. That's power. You see, what if I had instead of 3,3 lakh gundas, imagine that. Imagine I have 1 million highly trained soldiers who are armed to their teeth. Imagine the power that comes with that. Yeah, I may not I may choose to not use that but see so that's the nature of power at the basis at the root of power is raw naked violence or the capacity to unleash this violence you may choose not to unleash it but you should have the capacity that's that's power says which missiles did Israel use to attack Qatar I have no idea sorry sir I I did not look into it um I believe they used F-35s or something and some some missiles launched from there I suppose but I don't know which missiles sorry so sorry I can't answer that question we can we can Google it I'm not sure it's if it's known to the media which missiles used so cinnamon no question but thank you so much I really appreciate your your contribution thank you very much sir or manual says will Russia Ukraine war spark a wider Europe war it all depends on the on the actions of the combatants does NATO seek to widen the war. Does Putin seek to conquer more European countries? These are the questions that will answer whether the this war can spark a wider Ukraine war Europe war. I don't believe for one second or microscond that Putin has has any dreams of conquering other European countries. So from Russia's side, I don't think there's going to be escalation into other European countries. But does NATO want to escalate the war to let's say Poland or to the Baltic countries or something? If they take actions that that have this kind of consequence then there could be a wider European war. So it depends on the actions of NATO as well as Russia. Gali versus you cannot say such things. I cannot read that out aloud. U so those words were expuned from the German national anthem, weren't they? So how can the uber folk the uber folk reconcile with mers and tail waggers? So Deutsland blah blah and Deutsch blah blah blah. So how can the uber folk the the upper folk the the the master race reconcile with Mertz and tail waggers? I'm not sure what Mertz is and tail waggers is. What you asking sir? I know understand the first two uh I understand this what that means. I understand that. I understand the uber folk. Yes. The the master race which is what the Germans believed they were. But what's ms and tailbagers? I'm not entirely sure about that. Sorry. Sorry. Okay. Clause and effect. No question. But thank you very much. Very kind of you sir ma'am. And now there's a question. How do we go about building a strong identity and decolonize our minds without losing our inherent values of inclusion and tolerance? Inclusion and tolerance. Inclusion. Look, inclusion is a very dangerous word. You want to include barbarians. You want to include any riffraff who comes into the country. Do do we want to include the the 100 million Bangladeshes who are currently squatting on our territory? Do we want to include the cookies who have been pushed into India the past few few decades in the past few years or god knows how many lakhs. Do we want to in be inclusive towards antinational forces? Do we want to be inclusive towards anti-vilizational forces? We have to be very clear about what we mean by inclusivity. What do we mean by tolerance? We have we are not a tolerant society. We are a respectful society. There's a massive difference between tolerance and respect. Shall I tolerate you at my dinner table? I mean, I tolerate dogs sometimes at my dinner table. If I am an English lord, English lords tolerated dogs and cats at their dinner table. So, shall I, if you come to my house as a guest, shall I tolerate you like that at my dinner table? That is such a disrespectful term, tolerance. You either respect or don't respect. Don't tolerate. Sometimes you have to tolerate bugs in your house if you don't have the spray. Tolerance is such a such a disrespectful word. Indian culture has never been tolerant. It's been respectful of those who deserve respect, not of those who don't deserve respect. It's not been inclusive. It's been welcoming to to do to to those who deserve a welcome. We are not an inclusive culture who we we we will not be inclusive towards those who are dharmic and who will be anti-vilivilizational, anti- our civilization, anti- our culture. So we have to be very clear about that otherwise we go down the wrong alley and towards our own destruction. So how do we clarify these things in our mind and bring build a strong identity and decolonize our minds? By reforming the education system and by teaching children. then next generations from the very beginning the very fundamentals of what it means to be Indian and what it means to be civilized and what what it means to be a member of a strong nation a strong civilization. How to think critically how to understand the difference between something that looks appealing like inclusivity but which is actually very dangerous potentially and how to understand that tolerance is disrespectful as opposed to being respectful. So these things these very fundamental things have to be clarified in the education system. Education system its objective should be to to to contribute to the nation strong strong and confident young people who are capable of changing the world in in a in a good way. That's what we need. Education system is the key. Susan Baratwaj says between you and Oshu my he has a pool. Okay. Result a brain that runs on sarcasm and random wisdom. All right sir. I had never imagined that I would be you. My name will come in the same breath as Osho. Osho was an absolute genius. No question about it. Uh anyway I I think you're giving me a compliment. So thank you so much sir. What can I say? I really appreciate it. Thank you. Mad says according to this website three okay according to this website three world wars world war II will be made to happen between political zionists and Islamists it say it seems like a setup has been made my thoughts I don't know I don't know what the future is going to be like I can see the world going in certain directions I can give a probabilistic assessment of what is more likely what is less likely but I don't believe people who say that they have seen the future how have you seen theuture future are you like what blessed by the gods so I don't know I don't really um look into these websites where which like make definitive claims that this is what's going to happen if someone says this is likely to happen because of so and so reasons I'll I'll be I'll take it seriously um so yeah I I'm not aware of this website maybe I'll take a look at it world war II will be made to happen I hope there is no world war 3 and according to me there is no guarantee there'll be a world war if somebody is saying that World War II is going to happen and it's going to happen between these sides. I'll say, "How on earth are you making these assessments? How are you so convinced? Have the gods visited you in your sleep or something?" Well, why don't they visit me? Why Why am I being left out by the gods? Please visit me too. Tell me also what's going to happen. Uh okay. Prasami says, "Do you think India can prevail this tough time?" Yes. With the right leadership, with the right amount of resilience from ordinary Indians, we will prevail. We will withstand these tough times the next 20 years. Why not? We have gone through far worse and we have come out of it with damage but still alive, still existing. So we will come through this too. I am confident. Phoenix says you are doing great work. Thank you sir. Globalist forces uh that suppress civilizations have paid best efforts in bat to distort history. Also please look look into Kukas 6. They ran successful boycott and non-ooperation movement. Jind very interesting. I'm not aware of the kuka 6. They ran a successful boycott and non-ooperation movement during the independent struggle. I I suppose I I'll I'll certainly check it out. Thank you so much for the recommendation and thank you so much for your kind words, sir. Thank you so much. And I agree that there are these forces that are that seek to suppress civilization and that are very active in BAT and who want to distort our history and keep Indians mentally colonized and keep Indians saddled with this inferiority complex and keep Indians fighting each other and seeing each other as the enemy instead of seeing the real enemy. These forces are very active. So you are right and thank you so much. Thank you. I will check out the reference about the Kukas. I look into it. Thank you sir. YouTube says many Americans are sympathetic to Russia and say China is the enemy. Is it because Russia is white and Christian while China is not? What's your opinion on Mir Shimemer? Uh there are lots of Americans who say lots of Europeans also who say that Russia is not a white country. It's an Asian country. They're not really white. They're Asians because look at their eyes. Their eyes look like Mongols. Some some many of them. You look at Putin's eyes. His eyes are smaller. He may have he may be blonde. He may have blue eyes but his eyes are smaller. So there are many Europeans who portray Russia as an Asiatic country. And there are lots of Europeans who don't consider the Russians to be Asian to be Europeans. They consider Russia to be an eastern country or empire. So Russia is considered to be part of the east like India, China, Asia that sort of thing for many people. But I suppose many Americans look at look regard Russia as a white country also. Me personally, if you ask me what what world what part of the world does Russia belong in, I would say Europe more than Asia because the Roose people, the Slavic people from my perspective as a child, I used to see them as white people and they've got blue eyes, blonde hair, white skin, they're whites from me, from my perspective, but then I realized that the Europeans don't quite see it that way. Anyhow, uh so it could be because of the the white-kinned Christianity and all that which is a different form of Christianity, Orthodox Christianity, more like the Greek form of Christianity, right? The Russian form of Christianity. My opinion on Mir Shmer, he's a realist. I haven't really studied him in detail. I haven't really read his works. I have acquired a couple of his books, but I haven't had the time to read those. So, I will reserve my judgment. I from what I've seen of him, he is a very realistic person. He's a realist. He's um not an idealist. is not someone who um runs on ideology. He's a more realistic person. Uh does he have a does he have a soft corner for for Russia and China like some people say? I'm not sure about that. I'll have to read his books in detail to understand that. So I'm going to reserve my judgment towards Mir Shimmer, but from what I see of him, he is a realist. Amisha says, "Thank you for your answers. You're the best." Thank you so much, man. Thank you so much. Appreciate that. Achendi Anandan says I want to how to start Sham series maths for arts background. If you are from the arts background it means that you have not really focused a lot on mathematics. I understand. So you start with the very basic shom series books for example uh beginning algebra or something which will also re you know help you review basic arithmetic. So you don't start with college algebra or whatever. You start with a very basic algebra or maybe even something before algebra. Do they have basic mathematics in sh series? I'm not sure. So check it out. They have a whole show series has so many books. So you look for the beginner books and then you progress step by step. You you revise your basic mathematics. Then you go into beginner algebra. Then you go into like geometry or whatever. Geometric coordinate geometry sort of you know circles and triangles and quad quadrilaterals and all that stuff that I learned a long long time ago. Then you go into trigonometry and then you can go into college algebra and then you can go into basic pre-calculus and then actual calculus and then advanced calculus. Then you can go into differential equations and go into linear linear algebra. Then if you wish you can go to tensor calculus if you wish. I'm going too far ahead. So start with the very basics. That's what I would say. But tom is great. You don't need a teacher if you have to. Uh DN Singh says a couple of months, a couple of us made a telegram group your viewers to communicate with each other. Well, a couple of us made a telegram group your viewers to communicate with each other. Well, I would say that whoever wishes to join Dor Singh's telegram group should join it and then you can communicate with each other in in a way that you can't do on on platforms such as these. Well, thank you for letting us know and I suppose if you have a link somewhere you can put it up maybe on your user profile or somewhere and people can join that. So I'll I'll recommend people that those who are interested can check it out. All right, Jim Swiss has no question but well thank you so much miss you Jim Swiss in case you are French speaking from Swiss otherwise uh Schwitz or Switzer anyhow thank you so much I appreciate that and with that we have crossed three hours and I have dealt with all the the super chat questions all right I'm going to end it here pretty lively session okay there's one more question okay this will be the last one for So Jim Swiss says the first world war was Kurukhatra Mahabharat. Well you see if you don't look at the world from a euroentric perspective then the first world war could potentially be the b what they call the battle of the 10 kings because it was not one just one battle. It was an entire geopolitical sequence of events including multiple battles and the entire front of the war moved from central India all the way to the western fringes of India northwestern India. So it was a whole geopolitical campaign of the Barata clan of the Indians of the Rigidic Indians against a confederation of more than 10 clans and that is kind of a world war which went on for an extended period of time and of course so so maybe perhaps the battle of the 10 kings is the first world war actually and maybe the Kuketra war could be their second world war which came much much later much later Ramayan you could not call a world war because it was just a yodhya versus Lanka but Kurukhetra was a war with so many different combatants arrayed into coalitions. So yeah if you if you stop looking at the world from a euroentric perspective two major um wars come to mind that are really ancient. One is the b what they call the battle of the 10 kings which should actually be called the war of the 10. It's actually more than 10 kings. It was King Sudas, the son of Diwodas, against an entire confederation of more than 10 clans. Imagine the odds that were stacked up against him. And with the blessings of Lord Indra and the active participation of Lord Indra, he was able to overcome uh the this confederation and shape Bat the way it eventually came to be. So anyway, very interesting thoughts that you have put forward here and I agree that Kurukhetra is either the first actual world war or maybe the second world war based on a non-hurocentric perspective. With that let us end this live stream. Thank you everybody for watching for participating for all the questions. really appreciate that and I shall end this here and I look forward to to interacting way more with all of you and taking as many questions as possible in the next live streams in in the future live streams. So thank you so much everyone take care keep asking questions keep learning keep raising your standards and do check out the books do check out my books I'm now publishing books and eventually the books will come out in physical form the latest book is about is about Dr. Subraman Chandra Shashaka the first ever astrophysicist to win the Nobel Prize and the horrific discrimination he went through and despite that he prevailed. That's the third book that I've published in the black hole series. Check it out. Take care. I'll see you in the next one. Thank you. Bye-bye.