Hey. Hey. Hey. Heat. Heat. Hello, good evening and good day everybody and welcome back to the Ask Kabijit show this is episode 345 and we are discussing what's going on in the war against Iran the US Israeli war against Iran that's what we're going to discuss today and other things as well as per your as per your questions I'll take question from you from the super chat as many as possible today and before we do that let's see who all is there in the live chat with us I can see Sona Sanduji Hersh Patel Raman Gil Ritik Pawar Mandar Kerkar Pratarana Geopolitical Dubai from Indor good to see you sir. Mayul Rajes Babu from Kerala good to have you. Dashan Patel from Dip Kerala Mojour. Nirvana Shanks son how are you doing? Uh Janesh hello Nira Bardaja. Good evening Laran good evening. SKR7733 good evening are Singh J. Yes. Hello. Uh, real Radi Putin says, "Is lockdown inevitable?" We shall discuss that. Shrih Hari Arun namaste. Alkashikari, namaste. Arun 211093. Ryan KC. Uh, Aran Shawan from the UK. Good to have you, sir. Uh, P. Sudhir Kumar PSK. Happy birthday to you. P. Sudhir Kumar PSK. Um, Vensh Achara SKR Dundu. I haven't seen it yet. I haven't seen it yet. Uh um peumar once again happy birthday once again live that's all right okayishuk live says sense your frustrations at major general raj no look it's okay uh yes I did this podcast with major general rajim narayan gi sir uh on the aaram musafer podcast you know as as is natural no two people can agree on everything which is perfectly Fine. Uh, Anu Anush Sharma Photography. Namaskar. Um, who else do we have? Who else do we have? S. Morgan. Hello. Hello. Swami. Hello. Swami from Jaipur. I think. Yes. Nodita Varma. Namaskar. Sesh. Nali. YT. Shishir. Padya. Sangeita. Anthony. Hello. Sesh. Nali. Once again. Who else do we have? Who else do we have? Bin Salman. Hello. Bin Salman. Heisenberg. Hello. Priyanasud. SP Arush. Hello. really now Patel. Namaste ma'am. Geopolitical way from Indor once again. Um Sam Shukla hello uh G H O T O U Ram Ram Sergi Shubham Harapan guy from Maharo. Hello Shbam. Uh who else? Vikash Vikas Mishra 7 S7 E Vinod Somi from Jaipur Obear hello good to have you GU 75 Anu from the US. Uh good to see you. Good morning. Hi Shirinat NC Penguin. Hello. Uh Sabraat Tukla. Um who has watched me over a thousand hours? Well, that's incredible. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. It's genuinely a privilege. Thank you indeed. Swami says, "Have I watched Casablanca?" Yes, I've watched Casablanca. Yes, I have. Uh Dasura 73821, etc. Hello Pis Kumar Tesh Pandi Arian Khal 673 Muk Mukshiidi Nitan Sharma real uh everybody else I won't be able to greet you all Danu Nahapana is here well nahana namaste okay so before I get into the Q&As's let's examine what's happened since the last time we had a chat we we had this this live stream right the last one was this last Sunday, wasn't it? So, what's happened? So, President Trump, the American President Shri Donald Trump G uh gave uh an address to the nation early morning today, right? 6:30 a.m. or so India time and uh the whole world was waiting to hear what Mr. Donald Trump would have to say about this. Is it going to people were wondering is he going to end the war? Is he going to announce a ceasefire? Is he going to announce an escalation? Is he going to announce that he's withdrawing from NATO? I was on Republic TV yesterday 8 p.m. with Arnab Gowami and that's what we were discussing. That's what Arnab was wondering about. That's what everyone was wondering about that what is Trump going to speak about. Right? So um so Mr. Trump gave his speech his address to the nation. It was like 15 20 minutes right and nothing new nothing at all. It's like he was repeating what he had tweeted in the past, right? And absolutely nothing in it. He tried to justify his war against Iran. He's has always said that he is winning. It's going to take like two, three weeks more. I I don't know two weeks, three weeks more. And his secretary of war, Pete Hegsith, said that they're going to bomb Iran back to the stoage. I think Trump also said that in this in the speech and uh yeah so the war goes on I suppose the war goes on he has made so many flip-flops Donald Trump over the past month so many flip flip-flops in terms of the objectives of the war so it doesn't look like this war is any ending anytime soon so let's let's take a look at as always a few u you know a few tweets that will help us understand what's going on. So this is from today morning breaking. President Donald Trump of the US says that the US will leave Iran within two weeks, maybe 3 weeks. That's stretching the White House's initial guidance of four to six weeks weeks war. So clearly it's overstretching the budget or the time allocation that they had in mind earlier. When they started the war, I think they were uh they were laboring under the delusion that the war will be over in 48 hours. But clearly that's not happened. Uh so that's about Trump. This is from a tweet from the White House. For years, everyone has said that Iran cannot have nuclear weapons. But in the end, those are just words if you're not willing to take action when the time comes. So Trump is taking action. It's not just words with Trump. It's all actions according to him. Let's see what actions he's able to take about Iran and nuclear weapons. Now you have Pete Hexet, the Secretary of War, who says back to the storage. So they are promising that they're going to bomb Iran back to the stone age. What happened to liberating the people of Iran? Wasn't the agenda allegedly to liberate the people of Iran from this horrible regime of the Ayatollas? So if you're going to bomb that nation back to the stone age, if you're going to destroy schools with children in it, if you're going to bomb universities, how how how exactly are you liberating the people? It's not about liberation then, right? Trump seems to be very gleefully talking about bombing Iran back to the stone age and this guy Hath back to the stone age. So they are promising they're going to send Iran back to the stone age. They're going to bomb the hell out of Iran over the next 2 3 4 weeks. That's what they are promising. And yet they are not able. They're not able to force Iran to open the state of Hormuz. Trump is pleading to the Europeans and other nations that you know what you need to come in and open the state of Hormos if you want the oil because we Americans we have our own oil but it's you Europeans and you other nations who want oil from the state of Hormos so you need to come in and force Iran to open it which means he wants to drag more nations into the war and that's where we start talking about something very bad which is World War II so that's by Pete Hexet now what do we have yeah this This is again from ear earlier today. President Trump of the US says that the US is going to hit Iran extremely hard over the next 2 three weeks. We're going to bring them back to the stone ages. He seems to be very pleased about bombing a nation to the stone age. Right. So that's his promise. Let's see how that goes. What else? Uh this is from yesterday. US President Donald Trump threatens to halt weapons supplies to Ukraine unless European countries agree to agree to join a coalition to secure the straight of Hormos. Right? So once again, he is issuing threats that I'm going to stop weapons supplies to Ukraine unless European nations join a coalition to secure essentially to to to fight against Iran in the Persian Gulf region, the the the Arabian Sea region, the Straight of Hormos region and force Iran to open the Straight of Hormos. Does Trump imagine that if the US with its aircraft carriers and its military might was unable to force Iran to open the state of does he imagine that the European nations will be able to make this happen? It's impossible. If the US can't do it, the Europeans simply certainly can't do it. So Trump just wants more nations to join the war. He seems to be intent on dragging the world into World War II because if more European nations join in then I suppose China and Russia will have a very very good incentive very strong incentive to join in more more actively than what they are doing right now. Uh okay what else? Congress so this is a tweet this is a piece of news from 2023. See, Trump has been complaining about NATO, hasn't he? Trump has been complaining about NATO. What's happened is that there's a bunch of NATO nations that have refused to give the United States permission to use military bases in those nations as as part of the war against Iran. And they have also refused to allow their airspace to be used by the US in connection with the war against Iran. Which nations are these? Well, you have Italy, you have France, you have Spain, you have Poland, you have Greece, and I'm sure there's more nations. So all these nations have refused permission to the US to use their airspace or their military bases as as staging posts or transit areas for uh participating in the war against Iran. So Trump is extremely upset about this matter. Uh let me try and find some more tweet tweets. I'm sure there is something more. Give me a second. So, so yeah, the the the Americans are extremely upset with the Europeans that they are, you know, not not behaving like good nice vasals. Okay, let me let me put up a couple more tweets here. Give me a second. Um, there's one more here. And there's one more here. Okay, that's going to load. And another one is going to load. Okay. So, what have we here? So, this is uh a tweet from the White House. Is it from the White House? No, it's from the Department of State. Uh Secretary, please be silent, sir. Okay. So, Secretary Rubio says, "Why are we in NATO?" You have to ask that question. Why is the United States in NATO? You have to ask that question. Why does the US send trillions of dollars and have all of these American forces stationed in the region when in America's time of need, the US is not allowed to use those bases? That is the question he's asking. Well, you know, Mr. Rubio, the United States pays for the privilege of occupying Europe militarily and projecting power all the way up to Russia's doorstep. So the US is getting that incredible access all across Western Europe. It's able to put bombs, weapons, arms, ammunition, missiles, nuclear weapons right at Russia's doorstep because it is part of NATO. So shouldn't the US pay for the privilege, right? And in exchange for that, NATO nations, they purchase American weapons and Trump has already forced the NATO nations to double their contribution to the alliance by 2030 and they have agreed, right? So the question is why are the Americans complaining? I mean, according to the NATO charter, the NATO nations aren't under any obligation to allow America access to their bases and their airspace to fight a war that does not involve NATO in any shape or form. Right? So, uh that's what the Americans uh are complaining about. Right? That's what they're complaining about. Uh now, we have this interesting tweet from um Ed Davyy. He's the leader of the Liberal Democrats uh in the UK. It's it's a political party in the UK. Here's what he says. He says that Trump wants to rip up NATO because the UK refuses to be dragged into this is this illegal war. And the other NATO nations refuse to be dragged into this illegal war. And then he says very something very interesting. Threats to NATO today become threats to Trident tomorrow. The UK can't rely on Trump for UK's national security. Britain needs a truly independent nuclear deterrent committed to NATO defense. So here's the deal. The UK Britain has a number of nuclear submarines and these nuclear submarines are part of UK's nuclear deterrent. The UK has a number of nuclear warheads. Okay. And these warheads they are mated to these trident missiles ballistic missiles that are placed inside these submarines. Now the trident missiles are American missiles. Okay. So British bombs are mated to American missiles that are placed inside British submarines. But the missiles are American. You see Britain doesn't have missiles of its own. It was made to dismantle its rocket program, space program, missile program decades ago. So they don't have their own missiles. These are American missiles. And guess who has the big red button? On whose desk does the big red button sit? Does it sit on the desk of Mr. Kir Starmer in 10 Downing Street in London? No. No. No. The big red button sits in the Oval Office on the desk of the American president which means the UK's nuclear deterrent is a deterrent only name. It's controlled by the US. This is something I have been saying for years over here on this show, haven't I? And here you have official confirmation of this from the leader of a British political party that the British nuclear deterrent is not really a nuclear deterrent. It's really, it's actually controlled by the United States, not by the UK. Isn't that interesting? Right. Should I say I told you so? Right. Okay. So, there there is that. Now, what else is going on? Yeah. Now, we were talking about NATO, right? That the Americans are complaining over here that why are we in NATO? So in 2023, the US Congress approved a bill barring any American president from unilaterally withdrawing from NATO, which means Trump can't withdraw from NATO even if he wants to. And guess who guess who sponsored guess who participated and voted for the bill? It was Marco Rubio himself. So Rubio here is complaining why are we in NATO? And it was Rubio himself who was who participated in passing this bill that prevents any American president from unilaterally withdrawing from NATO. Did Mr. Rubio forget that very conveniently? So these threats that the Americans are making, they just bluff. They are simply bluff, aren't they? Rubio himself has tweeted this. No US president should be able to withdraw from NATO without Senate approval. So they will need a majority in the Senate in order to be able to withdraw from NATO. I think the Republicans currently have a majority in the Senate, but let's see how things go. Yeah. So there is this that's going on. What else do we have? And this is interesting. This is uh the Italian Prime Minister Madame Meloney. Madame Georg Maloney. And she has made this really surprising statement. I accuse Israel of crossing the red line. I condemn the massacre of Palestinian civilians and I announce that Italy will support European sanctions against Israel. That's an incredible statement, right? Incredible statement from Madame Maloney. So, looks like the Europeans don't want to participate in this war and the the sentiment in Europe seems to be turning against Israel for some reason. Very interesting. Very interesting. Okay, what else? Uh there's another interesting piece of news. UK security officials have started withholding intelligence from the US due to Trump's erratic and and yeah erratic behavior. The British officials feel the fear that British secrets will not remain classified as the American president has no compulsion about screwing over America's allies. So there's no trust now. No one trusts Trump. No one trusts the US. None of the vasals trusts the United Nations anymore, right? Chaotic foreign policy, repeated criticism of Kir Tmer and so on. A decadesl long intelligence relationship has been plunged into uncertainty after Washington's threats to Greenland, its ambition to interfere in European politics and public outrage over Britain's refusal to join the American war against Iran. Right? So there's, you know, there's this situation where the American vasals are losing trust in the US and, you know, they they are they are starting to withhold information and intelligence from the Americans. Uh here here's an interesting piece of news. After a 7-year hiatus, this is 2026, 7 years means 2019. So after a 7-year hiatus, India is about to import its first Iranian oil. Yeah, India is about to import its first Iranian oil at $100 roughly a barrel. Quite the achievement in Washington for the long-term strength of the economic and financial sanctions regime. Well, that's an interesting piece of news. Let's see how that goes. Yeah, let's see how that goes. Now, that here's one more piece of news that's not related that's not connected to the war, but nevertheless, it's important for India. France France refuses Rafal source codes to India triggering major blow to New Delhi's air power independence strategy. So the news it's it it was from March 31st. Today is April the 2nd. So Paris has reportedly denied India access to the Rafal fighters core source codes preventing New Delhi from independently modifying the tales uh ASA radar uh the mission computer and the electronic warfare suite. Um so French authorities confirmed that New Delhi will not receive access to the Rafal fighters core source codes a refusal that directly impacts India's ability to independently modify critical electronic and electronic warfare systems. So if India pays a tremendous amount of money to acquire these fighter planes should India not have the complete authority and complete power to change anything in the aircraft once we purchase them. They should be ours, right? But no, you purchase them, but you still can't modify everything. Some things you will need for French help every time to to modify. And each time you need French help, they will ask for money. That's what the French want to do. This is the kind of behavior that you typically see from the Americans. And look, it's a French aircraft. The French have the right to, you know, impose whatever conditions they want. But then India should have the right If India is sensible to not buy these aircraft, the French seem to think that since India has bought 36 or whatever Rafals, that's why it's it's almost a done deal that India will have to buy more and that's why they think that they can now arm twist India and extract more concessions from India. Right? So the French authorities say that the software architecture is highly sensitive and it's closely guarded technology developed over many years and that's why they cannot part with it. They can't share it with the Indians. And India is proposing to acquire up to 114 more Rafal fighters under the MRFA program. And this deal is estimated at approximately 36 billion American dollars. Yeah. One of the largest combat aviation procurements in modern defense history. And one one French report stated unequivocally India will not receive sensitive source codes for Rafa's radar and electronic office suite the French the France the France will retain control over core software despite technology transfer and local production cooperation. Okay. So source code control determines whether India can independently integrate indigenous weapons such as the Astra beyond visual range missile or potentially the Brahmos air launched cruise missile without recurring approval cycles from France and other from Dasalt Aviation and other other French defense firms. So um that's the issue and at the same time the Russians have proposed to sell the Sukoy 57 fifth generation fighter plane to India and provide full source code access to India including design documentation and customization authority right so so that's the question India is in this situation now India has to make a decision what does India two does India give in to French arm twisting or does India actually go ahead and say no to France and purchase Sukoy 57s so one more new aircraft into India's inventory okay but it's a Sukoy and it's in some ways something that integrates with India's Sukoy 30 fighter planes so it's not going to be a tremendously different aircraft I'm sure some components will be will be similar and I'm sure you can use the same production line for that was used for Sukoy30s to manufacture Suko 57s. Uh and then there's the question of the Russians. The Russians themselves haven't been extremely reliable. Okay, we've had issues with the Russians when it comes to the a to the FGFA fighter plane program which was the precursor to the Sukoy 57. We've had issues with the Russians about spare parts of various arm systems. We've had issues with the Russians about the aircraft carrier that they sold to us, Admiral Gorskov. So what does India do? That's the question. India is currently, you know, the number of squadrons, fighter plane squadrons that we have, they they are way below what we should have, right? The number of squadrons we should have, I don't know, we have 29 or 30 or 31 squadrons and we should have I don't know what number 39, 40, whatever the number is, right? So that is the dilemma India is in. It's been years and years we've been talking about purchasing or buying or manufacturing or whatever and they are making no progress whatsoever. So what should India do is the question. I think pay attention to what's happening in Iran. Are fighter planes dominating the skies? No. Fighter planes are not dominating the skies. Fighter planes are being shot down. F-35 fighter planes, F-15 fighter planes, all kind of fighter planes have been shot down by the Iranians. Iranian fighter planes have been shot down by the Americans. And what is doing the shooting down? It's not fighter plane shooting down fighter plane. It's missiles shooting down fighter planes. And what is doing the most destruction in the war? It's drones and missiles. So what India should do is focus on India's AMCA. Don't buy the Rafal, don't buy the Sukoy, or maybe buy a bunch of Sukoys, whatever, but focus on the AMC. Focus on jet engines. And if the AMC comes into production in a in a decade from now, okay, in the meanwhile, India should focus on drones and missiles, various kinds of missiles. India should build up a stockpile of more than a million drones of various kinds and more than 10, 20, 30,000 missiles of various kinds including cruise missiles, supersonic, hypersonic, subsonic cruise missiles, ballistic missiles. That's what India should do because the wars of the future are going to be fought with drones and missiles, not with fighter planes. Fighter planes are obsolete now. They're becoming more and more obsolete just like aircraft carriers. So maybe it's a and India should also focus on unmanned combat aircraft aerial vehicles like the Gatak. This is the future of aerial warfare not fighter planes. I think India's mindset is still stuck in the 20th century. Right? So uh that's the thing that's what uh I think India should do. India should learn the lessons of the wars others are fighting. We should not wait for us having to fight a war and then learn some lessons. No, learn the lessons that are that are you know that are visible that that can be learned from other people's wars and other people's mistakes. So that's what India needs to do. Lots lots and lots and lots of drones of various kinds including Indian versions of the shahed or whatever other drones and missiles of various kinds including and India should not think of ballistic missiles as something that's used to deliver the nuclear deterrent. No, ballistic missiles should be used for delivering conventional munitions also. That's why India should needs to have tens of thousands of missiles. See, I mean, see how many missiles the Americans and Israelis and the Iranians have used up in the just one month of war. Thousands, I suppose. Thousands. So, if India has to fight a war, a two-front war, China and Pakistan, we're going to have to spend we're going to have to shoot thousands of missiles every month. So I think India should have a stockpile of 100,000 missiles at least and several million drones. That's what India needs to do. Quantity has a quality of its own. Okay. Anyway, so that is what's going on. Uh India is facing challenges. India is facing challenges when it comes to energy. The straight of foremost is closed, selectively closed. Some uh uh some tankers, oil tankers are being allowed to cross. uh the Iranians are allowing oil tankers to cross the street of Armos if they are going to India. But there's also the threat that the straight of Bab al-Bandde could also be closed by the Houthis because the Houthis are allied with Iran. And if Iran faces more punishment by the Americans and Israelis, they will activate the Houthis who will close the state of Babel Bandib. And then the oil that's coming into India from Russia will also stop. Then what do we do? The Ukrainians have destroyed or damaged significantly at least three or four Russian ports which are at the forefront of Russia's oil exports. So Russia's uh capacity to export oil has dropped by about 40% and Russia is just sitting and taking the punishment. So super complicated situation right now. The war in the Gulf region and the war in Ukraine are now interconnected and uh and India could face uh India, China, Russia, not Russia, India, China, Japan, other nations could could face uh potentially if the war goes on shortages of uh of fuel whether it is uh oil which gives rise to diesel, petrol, kerosin, jet fuel etc. and also cooking oil sorry cooking gas and I am aware of several restaurants in large cities in India that that have already shut down because of a shortage of gas right so yeah that is the situation so the longer this war goes on the more problematic it's going to be for the entire world but can the US end the war the US is it in a position to end the war will the Israelis allow the US to end the war and if the US ends the or in such a way that it has to withdraw militarily from West Asia, then Iran becomes the regional hedgemon. Even if Iran is damaged, pounded, devastated, it still has the ability to destroy all the nations in the region. And that means that Iran can then impose its will on the Gulf nations if the Americans are have to withdraw. And then what happens? These Gulf nations are oil producing nations. and Iran will demand that they sell oil and do transactions of oil in non-dollar currencies and that's a disaster for the US. That's why the US cannot withdraw right now from the war. So whatever Trump says he's he he has dug a hole for himself a deep hole for himself and I don't see how he's going to extricate himself out out of this. is going to get more and more desperate the next two three weeks if uh things don't change. Uh so that's where we are. Okay, that's my analysis. Okay, now let's take some questions. What questions do we have? H Patel says two questions. How difficult would it be for Iran to develop a missile with a range of 6,000 plus miles? Hypothetically, what would happen if Iran managed to target a major US city during this war? Okay. Miles to kilometers. What's 1.5 1.6? What is it? So 6,000 * 60. So it's about 9,000 10,000 km you're talking about. How difficult would it be for Iran to de develop a missile of that range? So right now the Iranians seem to have missile have missiles of 2 to 4,000 km range. Now understand this one thing, okay, about ballistic missiles. A ballistic missile doesn't have a set range. a ballistic missile. Let's say it has a range of a stated range of 2,000 kilometers hypothetically. Okay? And a payload capacity of let's say uh 1 ton. Okay? Let's say 1 ton payload capacity, which means it can have a warhead or multiple warheads that cumulatively have a weight of 1 ton hypothetically. And with that payload, the missile can travel 2,000 km. But what if I cut down the payload from 1,000 kg to 100 kg? 90% reduction. Then the range increases, right? You may be able to almost potentially double the range by reducing the payload. And all it takes to have an even longer range is more propellant, more fuel. And if you are if you have good engineers, it's not that hard to do that. Of course, you've got to test the missiles. Right. And the Iranians have been testing it. They've done a lot of tests in the past month. So I don't think it is very difficult for Iran to to develop missiles with much longer ranges. They currently have missiles that can target Diego Garcia, which is about 4,000 km away from the Iranian coastline, which means that Iran can, if they want, they can target any city within Western Europe. Okay. Now, if you want to cross the Atlantic, hypothetically, that's what another 3,000 4,000 km. So, that's about 8,000. Yeah. So, u I don't think it is very difficult for Iran to do this. Now, what would happen if Iran managed to target a major US city during this war? Well, Iran isn't crazy enough to do that. Iran is a very rational nation as we have seen from their behavior during this war. So, this war has gone on for a month and Iran has taken no rash steps. They have made no rash rash actions, crazy actions. Whatever they have been doing, they have been doing in retaliation and in response to escalations and provocations by the US and by Israel. Understand who started this war? This is just a hard fact, okay? It's not my opinion. Who started the war? It is Israel and the US that started the war. Israel did not hit, you know, hit first. Isra, sorry, Iran did not hit first. Iran did not do the first strike. It was Israel and the US that did the first strikes and then Iran responded. And then when the Americans destroyed a desalination plant in Kashm Island, the Iranians responded with desalination of somewhere destruction of a desalination plant near Fujira. When the Americans and Israelis struck oil oil reservoirs, oil dep depots, the Iranians did the same thing. So they are doing tit for tat but they are not going crazy. When the Americans uh destroyed an Iranian school with 170 little children in it, the Iranians did not do something like that. Right? Uh the Americans have hit Iranian nuclear facilities. Iran thus far has not targeted Dimona in Israel. They have threatened Dimona but not targeted it directly. So Iran has been very very very you could say responsible if that word can be used in this war and I don't think they will do something as stupid as targeting a major US city but if they do it then then then I suppose if they target a major US city hypothetically which they will never do but they if they do it I think then Trump may unleash more punitive actions such as the forbidden weapons possibly. Today Ritik Paw says in this war who is winning and who is losing so far? I did a long analysis. I hope that gave you the answer that nobody is winning. Nobody is losing right now. Um you could say Iran is taking a tremendous amount of damage. But so you can say that the Americans and Israelis are they are tactically doing great but strategically it's Iran that's winning. See what is victory for Iran? the survival of the nation and the survival of the regime of the ayatas. If that happens, Iran has won the Americans and Israel is the Caribbean with an objective of destroying Iran and doing a regime change. That's what they've said on the first day of the war. Now that the tunes have changed now that now the story is that the Americans want complete destruction of Iran's uh nuclear program, complete destruction of Iran's drone capabilities, missile capabilities, and the opening of the state of Hormuz. If the Americans can't achieve these things, well, they haven't won. They have actually failed in achieving their objectives. So, I think Iran currently, you know, against all odds, you could say it's it's succeeding thus far. Yeah. Iran, you see, we in India talk about fighting a two-front war, two and a half front war. That's what we're worried about. Iran is fighting a seven, eight, nine front war at the same time. It's fighting all these nations at the same time and it's still on top. Yeah. Uh they are taking obviously tremendous damage. The amount of damage they've taken will cost them maybe hundreds of billions of dollars, maybe trillions of dollars to undo repair. Okay, it will take decades to do that. And yet it's Iran that is actually, you know, succeeding in what it wants to do. It's the Americans in Israel is who are not able to achieve what they want. Mandar Kirkar says uh does the deep state think it's time for World War II? Well, it depends. So, like I said, World War II means a lot more nations getting involved in this matter, right? In this war. Trump is trying to drag the Europeans into the war at some point in time. He he may even activate Pakistan. So it looks like Trump wants more nations to join the war. If the European nations join the war, it means that Russia and China may also potentially consider very strongly joining the war. Right? It may lead to severe escalations not just in Persian in the Persian Gulf region, also in Ukraine potentially because all the options that the Americans and Israelis have on the table, Putin also has those options on on the table visi Ukraine. So if the Americans escalate, if Trump drags more nations into the war, then there could be massive escalations and that is what you could call World War II. I hope it doesn't happen, but we are close to it. We're not very far far away from it. Arun has become a new member. Thank you very much, Arun and welcome to the channel's membership. Thank you. Chirang Shirinat says, "A slightly off-topic question. What extent did the Afghan war along with the Pistoica Glasnos and the US-led arms race following the Star Wars program contribute to the collapse of the USSR? There's a lot of factors that caused the collapse of the USSR. There's no one factor that you can point out, but uh the Afghan war was definitely u a very major setback for the USSR. They also seem to have thought that, you know, they'll just walk into Afghanistan and just take over the nation. And they fought there for close to a, I don't know, close to a decade. Yeah. And eventually they had to retreat without achieving any any of their objectives. Uh, and that was a huge huge blow to the morale of the nation, to the prestige of the nation. And it definitely contributed uh to it was one of the contributing factors to the uh collapse of the USSR. Uh because see for such a gigantic nation to remain unified the central government the polit bureau it needs to show that it is it is successful in what it does and if it is humiliated by a small rag rag tag nation like Afghanistan according to them rag according to them then the other states that are part of the USSR they will be emboldened to seek more autonomy and seek independence because it's clear that the that the nation doesn't have a high quality military and so on. So that was one contributing factor. Peristoric Glasnos was another big contributing factor because it um it for the first time allowed criticism of the government. Okay. Officially paristoic and was was about openness. It was about self-criticism. It was about admitting responsibility for shortcomings and so on. So that's that's when for the first time you know you you had open criticism of the government people pointing fingers and and pointing out the the the the shortfall shortcomings and mistakes of the government and overall that caused you know a decline in the morale of the nation a decline in in in people's confidence in in their leadership in their nation and that that per permeates down all the way to every level of society including the bureaucracy including the administrative uh sector including the military and when you have this overall uh you know uh low confidence situation in a nation it it makes it way more easy for the nation to you know fracture if it's such a large nation a US-led arms race all these things all these things they contributed in a variety of ways Chernobyl in a small way contributed but overall it was the decline in the standards in the USSR from 1960s all all the way to the 19 late 1980s and 1990s that caused the decline and eventual dissolution of the USSR. Vickskagula, thank you very much. Vikola Vikola says, "There's an intense misinformation campaign carried out in this war. What's your opinion on the impact on countries like UAE? Damage assessment, please." Uh, misinformation campaign. All media has some element of misinformation. All media, all news is propaganda. Please understand that. If you imagine that any news channel is 100% unbiased and balanced and neutral, if you imagine that, then you are living in La La Land. Everyone has some bias. I am biased, by the way. I am the first to say this. I am not a neutral person. I am biased. I am not biased towards the US. I'm not biased towards Israel. I'm not biased towards China. I'm not biased towards Russia. I'm not biased towards Iran. I am biased towards India and everything I say to you, you know, you have to understand that I I carry some bias in me. I am biased towards my nation and my civilization. Everybody is biased. But at least I admit it openly, right? Most of your analysts and journalists and experts, they will pretend to be neutral. They all are biased in some way or the other. Some of them may have unknowing unknown biases that they are not aware of within themselves and some of them may actually be hypothetically paid to push certain kinds of agendas and propaganda. And when it comes to foreign media, I'm talking about Indian media also. Okay? But when it comes to foreign media whether it's BBC whether it's CNN whether it is uh u CCTN whether it is develutnik everything is propaganda everyone is pushing their own agenda Yeah, if you don't understand this, then you're going to be very badly misled. If you imagine that the the news that you're reading or watching, it's the truth. No, it's not. And the Indian media is a very low quality media overall. Not all, some of these, some of them are good, of course, but overall, most of them are super mediocre. Most of them don't even understand what what journalistic best practices are. Okay? If the BBC and CNN said something, it doesn't mean it's the truth. Some of them don't understand that. I very surprising and very shocking for me to to realize this. Some of them don't understand that if the B BBC reports something or the CNN reports something, it doesn't mean it's the truth. And you don't start repeating it in the Indian media. But most Indian media outlets simply regurgitate, simply repeat the talking points of the western media. That way, there's no need to do research of your own. just watch the news on BBC then come and speak in Hindi or whatever language the same things and then you look so informed and so such an such an expert. So uh that is the deal. So there is definitely a massive very intense misinformation propaganda campaign being carried out on this war not just in uh mainstream media also on social media. Social media platforms are biased. Social media platforms have algorithms that suppress certain kinds of news. There are various nations that have impo that have imposed tremendous censorship of news, news blackouts in some countries right now. If if you are living there, you are not allowed to take a video of what's happening. So there's a tremendous amount of misinformation out there. It's very hard to know what's actually happening. The first two three days of the war, it was very clear what was happening based on the reports on Twitter and then suddenly all the reports disappeared, you know. Uh so yeah uh what's my opinion on the impact on nations like the UAE? Well for the UAE it's a difficult time. Okay let's take the UAE as an example. The UAE is this small nation, very friendly towards India. Very good nation. About 60% of the population of the UAE is from the subcontinent. About 40% of the population of the UEE is of Indian origin. They are not citizens but they live there. So the UAE has well the two major cities or the two major emirates in the UAE are Dubai and Abu Dhabi. Abu Dhabi's economic model is mainly oil. They have the Abu Dhabi National Oil Corporation Adno which is a major oil exporter. And then Dubai has a totally different economic model. Dubai doesn't have much oil. So Dubai has positioned itself as a resort city. It's a gigantic resort, okay, for high netw worth individuals, rich people, wealthy people. You can you so they will they well if you are a wealthy person and you can afford to live in the city, they welcome you with open arms. So all the residents of the of of of Dubai are wealthy people. But the majority of the population of the of of Dubai is actually uh the workers. So in a resort you may have 15 guests but you may have 200 employees who service the guests who give whatever services that the guests require. So for 10 or 15 guests you need 200 employees. So that sort of thing you have in Dubai it's it's a massive resort. Now, when there's a war and the American promise of military protection turns out to be um an illusion and you have drones flying in and hitting hotels that that that are hosting American armed forces personnel and you have some casualties, then the high netw worth individuals, they will all flee the city, right? So, a lot of people have left uh Dubai apparently, especially ultra rich people. There's a lot of people who have not left Dubai also who are still staying on. Okay. But the longer the war lasts and the longer there is this you know air of uncertainty and potential military activity uh the longer this this lasts the more unviable this economic model will become. So for Abu Dhabi it will be fine because they can keep on selling oil. For Dubai it's going to be a disaster if it this if this goes on for 6 months 1 year or whatever. Right? Uh but overall Iran has not indiscriminately bombed Abu Dhabi or Dubai. They've only hit military targets and hotels where allegedly American military personnel are staying. Okay. Hanei says, "What happens if the Gulf nations stop supporting the US war? Can it backstab the US by giving US army targets and locations to Iran to end the war? Is it possible? Iran doesn't need any information from the Gulf nations. Why does Iran need information from the Gulf nations? You can just take you can open Google maps and see the locations of the American bases in the Gulf region. You don't need information from the from the Gulf nations, right? The American military bases are very visible from satellites, from even free satellite imagery like Google Maps or Google Earth. And the Iranians have access to high quality Chinese military satellite imagery in almost real time. So Iran knows exactly what's happening and what is where. They know exactly where the radars are. They've taken out a number of very very expensive and valuable radars. They know exactly where the American refueling aircraft are. They know exactly where the American Awax aerial radar aircraft were stationed. And they've done pinpoint strikes on these things. So why does Iran need any information about targets and locations from the Gulf nations? And the Gulf nations won't do it. They are not stupid. They are not suicidal, right? They won't do it. They have some sense. Okay. So, uh that that's not going to happen. Now, what happens if the Gulf nations stop supporting the US war? How can they stop supporting the US war? They have already given the Americans bases in their territory. They can't ask the Americans to leave, but they don't have to ask the Americans to leave because the Iranians have already destroyed the bases or rendered them mostly inoperable. So essentially one month into the conflict, uh it's almost a certainty that most if not all of the American military bases in the region have been destroyed. The fifth fleet headquarters in Bahrain, one of the biggest naval installations in the region, has been devastated by Iranian missiles and drones, right? And and so the same applies to other American military installations in the region. So I don't think uh the Gulf nations need to stop the port in the US. The US is being pushed out of the region by Iranian strikes. Ranu Nahapana says who was Mahakshhatra Ishwar Singh related to Sakas? I am not aware of who this was. Ishwar Sen Mahakhatra Ishwar Sen. I don't think I've come across this name. When it comes to Mahakhatraas, I know about Nahapana. I know of Chashtana. I know of Rdra Dhaman and other Mahakhatraas. I am not aware of Ishwar Sin. Sorry. Warrior says, "Is India preparing for a military operation? There have been serious CCS meetings and siren testings. All three military leaders are visiting temples. Look, I am a civilian. I am not involved in any shape or form in the Indian government, in the Indian military or in the Indian intelligence services. So I am not aware of whether India is preparing for any kind of military operation. I would say that currently the situation is tense. There is a war that's going on in our backyard unfortunately and that war could escalate. Yeah, we know that Pakistan is a rogue nation. It's a terrorist nation. Pakistan and Afghanistan have an ongoing conflict going on. Right? So we have to be very alert right now. Pakistan is a treacherous nation. We have to be very alert and that's why I'm sure the government of India is conducting routine precautionary precautionary measures and so on. Maybe they're testing out sirens just to make sure that everything is operational in case something is needed. Military leaders visiting temples. Well, I I don't know anything about that. It's good that military doesn't visit temples. I have nothing against that. Of course, I I welcome that. But I don't know if it is an indicator of something that's going to happen. So I answer is I am not aware of what's going on. Omupali says analyze that if Iran wins, petrol dollar ends, US economic might might ends less money to spend on military hard power in total decrease in Taiwan, South Korea falls, China, North Korea are waiting for the right moment. Okay. Let's say hypothetically Iran wins. So what is the definition of an Iranian victory? The definition of an Iranian victory is that Iran Iran's government continues to exist. Iran's nuclear facilities are not destroyed. Nuclear capabilities are not destroyed. Iran's drone stockpile is not destroyed. India's uh sorry, Iran's uh missile stockpile is not destroyed. they continue to have the ability to to use drones and missiles whenever they want. Okay, that's number one. Number two, the state of Horus remains closed. Uh and number three, the Americans, they lose all their military bases in the region because Iran has destroyed them. So then how does the how does the US return to the region with military force when they have no military bases that that that survive? If you want to station fighter planes, drones, uh, radars, military personnel somewhere, you need military bases. You can't put them in a city, right? And if the Iranians have destroyed your military bases, it means the Americans can't set up operations there, which means that they lose their ability to project power in the region, in the Gulf region. That is the definition of an Iranian victory. State of also remains closed. So if this happens and the Americans withdraw or are forced to withdraw from the Gulf region and then what happens is that even if Iran is very badly devastated, it is still the most powerful nation in the region because it still has maybe one lakh drones and maybe several thousand missiles. So nobody dares nobody dares to speak against Iran or do anything against Iran. In that situation, what Iran can do is it can demand that every Gulf nation whenever it does oil transactions, it does those oil transactions in a non US dollar currency, maybe Chinese yuan. If that happens, the petro dollar system starts collapsing. Okay? If the petro dollar system starts collapsing, the US dollar loses value rapidly. I don't know rapidly or not, maybe over a course of 2, three years. If that happens, the US obviously has less money to spend on everything including power projection capabilities, military hard power, salaries, blah blah blah, all that stuff. Then what does the US do? And in the meanwhile, China learns all the lessons of this war. It bulks up its massive stockpiles of missiles and drones. China has an enormous mil military industrial complex. They can churn out missiles and drones and submarines and ships like sausages. So maybe let's say China stockpiles millions of drones and tens of thousands of missiles. And then Xiinping says, "Okay, move on Taiwan." What happens? What can the US do? Nothing much. China wins. Taiwan may be destroyed perhaps. Okay, but China still gets, you know, uh gets possession of the island, let's say. And if China makes a move on Taiwan, the Americans will force Japan and South Korea to get into a war with China, which means now we have a major war in that region. Right? So the question is, is China willing to take that risk of going to war with Taiwan, South Korea, and Japan and the US at the same time? that starts sounding like World War II once again, right? Uh so yeah, these are all very dangerous situations if they happen. But just by winning this war, Iran can start the process of collapsing the petro dollar system and start the downward fall of the US dollar in terms of value. Aman Sharma says, "I am a software engineer and I want to create a software that can go global and useful to the country. In which area should I research? Thanks for guiding." I don't know. I don't know. You have to uh analyze the business landscape very very uh carefully. See if you want to create a software. So okay you're a software engineer you have the skills you need to choose you know forget about the platform and forget about all that forget about the technology that they use to create the software you to ask yourself what do you want to create a web app do you want to create a mobile app do you want to create a SAS SAS I don't know how viable SAS is in today's AI agentic environment okay and you want a software that is popular that goes global it's useful for the country so you Decide what niche you want to be in. Okay? If it goes global, it means it it will be very popular. So decide what it is. What what does it take for a software or or a product to to become popular globally? And if it's something that will become popular globally, how can it help the country? So this analysis you have to do. I have never not done this analysis. So I can't just sit here and tell you out of my imagination what will work, what will not work. I have no idea. You have to spend time. You have to spend hours analyzing what works, what doesn't work. What do people want? What do people like? What do people love? What do people crave? Then the things that people crave. Can they actually be helpful for the country? You know, think about these things. This is something you have to do, sir. Okay. This takes a lot of time and effort. And what you can do is you can spend months doing this analysis and then then create one software which may or may not work. Or what you can do is you can start trying lots of ideas. Ship one um one product every week for the next one year. So in one year you have 52 products that have gone that have gone out and see how is the demand how is the response out of those 52 products maybe maybe 5% will become popular maybe 3% will become popular right so even if 10% out of 50 that's five so even after one year if two of your products become popular you'll make good money and you will understand what works what doesn't work right so I think the better approach is to ship one product a week for one year and see how it goes. That way you have a much higher chance of success compared to spending 6 months doing your research and then shipping one product after that. So I think that's what you should do. Try lots of different ideas. If you are a software engineer, you already have the tools and the skills. Okay? Start pushing out lots of products. Push one product out into production every week for the next one year. And then I'm sure you will get a way better understanding and feel for what works, what doesn't work, what is popular, what what has the potential to be popular, what uh is not going to work and what can be helpful for the country. That's what I would suggest you should do. All right. All the best sir. Du Patel says you mentioned census yesterday government announced. Well, I'm so glad. I'm so glad. Finally. Finally a step in the right direction. I am very glad. Good. I'm glad Ritik Hilwani says Russia takes a second strike by Ukraine on oil refinery. They have taken multiple strikes. Not second strike, multiple strikes. And from sitting over here far away from Russia. Okay, I am not there so I don't know what's actually happening on the ground, but it looks like the Russians are just sitting and taking it. Bang, bang, bang. Okay, all right. Let's do let's take more. I don't know what Russia is doing. Why isn't Russia taking some steps to prevent Ukraine from launching more strikes? Not sure what Russia is doing. I'm not sure what the strategy and the objectives are right now, but Russia is kind of looking weak right now. Right. Uh so Russia has taken multiple strikes on at least three ports from which oil is exported and in those ports you have big storage facilities for oil and those are being hit by Ukrainian drones. So what the Ukrainians are doing is they are sending swarms of drones maybe a thousand drones at the same time flying low flying over the territories of other nations until they reach Russia. Which nations are these? Is it is it Poland? It's definitely the Baltic states, Latia, Lithuania, Estonia, perhaps Poland also. And then it's striking in the St. Petersburg etc region. And Russia is just sitting and taking it. So yeah, Russia looks a little lost, little weak right now. It's not a good look for Russia and uh that's going to have an impact on us also because that oil it comes here. Yeah. It comes to India. Amish. Good evening, ma'am. From mega to mega destruction, Trump's mask fell off. So, it was MAGA. What is mega? Mega. What's MGA? Make Israel great again. Is that what you um Yeah. So, Trump's uh Trump's uh what do you say? His his his slogan is MAGA, right? Make America great again. And then people have accused him of actually having the agenda of MIGA which is making Israel great again. And Trump uh you know he used to boast that he during his first term as president he did not start a single war. The first president after decades who did that did not start a single war and during this term initially he was hankering after a Nobel prize. He even stole the Nobel Prize of that lady that that that the Venezuelan lady whatever her name is who wanted to become Venezuela's leader but she was yeah she didn't get what she want so he even took her medal for himself because she came and gave it to him so he wanted no Nobel peace prize and look at what he's done now in January he did a regime change in Venezuela he kidnapped the president of the nation I mean incredible and now he has gone and he's in the process of destroying the future of Iran, right? It's going to take Iran decades to rebuild itself whenever this war eventually stops after that. And who's going to pay for it? The Americans won't pay for it. Yeah. So, Trump's mask is indeed fallen off. Yeah. his carefully cultivated mask of being a pacifist and a president who doesn't start start wars. All of that has fallen off very rapidly during his second term as the US president. Dir Kamat says if the US withdrew from West Asia, would Iran become the regional hedgeim or would greater Israel become the region regional hedgeim? That seems to be the ploy to be. That's a good question. That's a good question. So let's say the US is forced say the US will not willingly withdraw from West Asia. They will want to remain in West Asia. But if Iran destroys all their military bases as most as what's most likely happened and if Iran continues to have the ability to launch drones and missiles on demand in whatever quantity they want, then the Americans can't stay in the region. They can't stay in the region. They will have to withdraw from the region. Their ships can't be in the region because their ships will be obliterated by the Iranians. Drone swarms are you just you can't defeat drone drone swarms, right? And if you combine drone sworn attack, drone swarm attacks with ballistic missiles, that's that's a devastating combination. So even aircraft carriers can't defend against that. So if Iran forces the United States to withdraw from West Asia, then who becomes the regional hedgemon? Well, Iran definitely will be the regional hedgemon. Okay. But will Isra also be a regional hedgeim? That depends on uh how things go in the in the coming days and weeks. Um because Israel seems to actually have this aspiration of creating a greater Israel from the Nile all the way to the Tiger Euphrates region, Mesopotamia region because I've seen soldiers, Israeli soldiers, IDF soldiers with that greater Israel patch on their shoulder. So it looks like it's an actual agenda for Israel. So can Israel actually make this happen? Right now they are in the process of occupying territory that belongs to the nation of Lebanon. Okay, that that's what Israel is doing right now. So, they are expanding their territorial holdings right now. They've also taken a little bit of little bit of territory from Syria. Um when the Assad regime fell and the terrorist uh al- Shara or whatever he is, he he took over. Um so if Israel is able to significantly expand its territory then it could be more of a hedgeim than it is right now. Right now Israel it scares other nations. Other nations are worried about Israel because it has you know essentially unlimited support from the United States in terms of funding in terms of weapons or whatever right and also because Israel has nuclear weapons. But let's say Iran forces the US to withdraw and then Iran acquires nuclear weapons then I think Iran becomes more of a hedge than Israel. Yeah. So yeah, Israel would definitely want to become the only hedgemon and that's why they don't want this war to end until the regime in Iran is defeated and there's a regime change. So, Israel most likely wants the complete destruction of Iran and a regime change and it doesn't look like it's going to happen soon anytime soon the way things are going. So, if the war ends the way it's going right now, I think Iran becomes the regional ham especially if it's able to acquire nuclear weapons quickly. Sergeant Skylanc says are Pakistani nukes sovereign. So the fiction that we are told is that Pakistan developed its own nuclear weapons through the efforts through the untiring unseasing efforts of the Pakistani nuclear scientist Abdul Kadra Khan Dr. Auk Khan and it is said that Dr. Aku Khan stole blueprints of reactors or centrifuges or whatever from the Netherlands and he came to Pakistan with those stolen items and that's how they were able to uh develop a Pakistani nuclear weapons program and test their own nukes. That's the fiction we are told but I don't buy it at all. Now I don't have any evidence whatsoever that the Pak that the nukes on Pakistani territory are American nukes but I am 99.9% certain that the Pakistani engineers and scientists don't have the wherewithal to develop nuclear weapons on their own. So most likely these nuclear weapons are American nuclear weapons. Some people say they are Chinese nuclear weapons. When Pakistan was a US vasal in the 1980s and 1990s, how how do you imagine that the US would have allowed China to give nukes to Pakistan which is an American vasal? I don't see that happening logically. So most likely the nuclear weapons on Pakistani territory are not Pakistani in nature. They are American nuclear weapons on on loan to Pakistan and not really on loan either. Most likely those nuclear weapons in Pakistani territory are handled by Americans only. Pakistanis are not even able allowed to come near them. That's most likely what the situation is. So my answer is that I am strongly strongly of the opinion without any evidence. Okay. But I strongly believe that the Pakistani nukes are not sovereign at all. they actually belong to the US and the objective of putting those nukes in Pakistan is to counterbalance India. Okay. Rahul Rahul Ladu says great point. The lesson here is speed of production matter more matters more than just quantity and quality. Big fan of you. Thank you so much sir. Yeah. Yes. I I suppose you're talking about uh the missiles and drones, right? We need to ramp up our production of missiles and drones. It's not enough to be able to maybe manufacture 200 in a year or something. We need to be able to manufacture 2,000 in a month or at least 200 in a month. Right? When it comes to missiles of one kind, maybe we should be able to manufacture 200 brahos in a month. But we should also in in parallel be able to manufacture 200 nearby in a month and 200 uh you know agni various various kinds of agnes and we should be able to manufacture several thousand drones in a month. That's the kind of production output we need. That's the kind of scale we need. So yes, the speed of production matters and the quality of course we need decent quality. It doesn't have to be the best in the world, but as long as as we have the quantity and decent quality, then we're good along with high speed of production. Suman Vikant says, "How did Alexander conquer Persia on the ground?" Uh, how did this happen? See, it's a good question. See, like I say, Persia, it's a very difficult nation to conquer, right? As Saddam Hussein discovered in 1980, it's got all these mountains and mountain ranges. It's like a fortress. And if you try to fight in the mountains, you're going to be defeated by the locals. So, how did Alexander managed to conquer Persia? It's because there were two pitched battles between Alexander's army and the army of Daros III. Dasi. If Das had dispersed his army across Iran, refused to give Alexander a fullon battle at any point in time and just harassed him continuously every step of his way through guerrilla warfare and tactics, Alexander would not have survived. But Dios was of the opinion that I am the emperor of the Persian Empire. I have this gigantic army. What is this Alexander in front of me? I'll take my entire army. I'll face Alexander in battle in a pitched battle. And that was the mistake he made. So the the Macedonian tactics and strategies were better than the Persian tactics and strategies. And that's why um uh that's why uh Alexander was able to defeat uh Dos the third two times. What was the first battle? I forget the name, but the second was Gaga, which was the decisive battle. And Dios was defeated twice in pitched battles. And that's how Alexander was able to conquer Persia. If Dios had divided his armed forces all and and put them all across Persia and especially used the mountainous ranges and all the terrain, Alexander did not stand a chance. See, so Das made a mistake. Big mistake. Fatal mistake of course. Utkash Marati says what is the reason behind Delhi prepared preparedness drills? Last time drills happened we know what followed four airports closed sirens installed in Jodpur etc. Well I don't know um yeah we know what happened last time such drills happened we had operation Sindur that happened. So I I think we should all be kind of mentally prepared in case something happens. But I am not aware of whether there are any plans for something happening. Maybe the government may have noticed some kind of activity on the Pakistani side and that's why we are just preparing for any eventuality. That's also a possibility. Another possibility is maybe we are preparing for our own action potentially. I don't know. I'm just guessing. I'm just speculating here. I have no information. So my point is I don't know what's happening. Uh but I'm glad that we are in a high state of preparedness because we have a terrorist rogue nation, an artificial temporary terrorist rogue nation on our doorstep and we have to be always prepared for any eventuality. Pain pain has become a new member. Thank you very much PNG and welcome to the channel's membership. Thank you. 24. Barat says when Great Britain created Congress, they instilled their Fabian socialist ideology into it to prevent India from ever industrializing in the way the USSR and China did. See the Congress party was a Gambian party actually their entire ideology and their entire method of functioning was Gandhian in nature. The Congress party was was founded it was created uh in the 19th century by a British individual called Alan Octavian Hume who was a British East India Company or whatever British official who served in India for a long time and he is the infamous person who created the great hedge of India that caused the deaths of I don't know lacks maybe millions of Indians. Okay, look into it. Would you like to look into it? Let's see. Okay. The great hedge of India. So first of all, let's see Alan Hume. Alan Octavian Hume. So this Okay. Alan Octavian Hume. This this person. Okay. British reformer. Ah what a great thing to be a reformer ornithologist civil servant botonist and was the founder of the Indian National Congress. But what about the great hedge of India? Where is that? Have they removed it? Have they removed all references to that? Ah, Indian customs line. Okay. So, uh, Commissioner of Customs. So, he created the inland customs line. this this division between two parts of India. Okay. To prevent the smuggling of salt from coastal regions into other parts of India to avoid the substantial salt tax because the British taxed salt in India. Okay. And that caused see it it caused the deaths of of a lot of people in India. It's impossible to know how many died of salt deprivation in India. Um it. So we don't know how many people died but a lot of Indians died because of this okay this this action that Alan Octaven Hume took but he is portrayed here as a great reformer who was out here to reform our society and he was a founder of the Indian National Congress. So when did he find found the Indian National Congress when did the foundation happen? sometime in the 19th century. Where is it? Where is it? Okay, whatever year it is, I'm not going to waste my time and dig through this Wikipedia article. As always, please remember Wikipedia is not necessarily a a source of reliable information especially about Indian history. But okay, so this guy Alan Hume founded the Indian National Congress. And if you will see, if you will examine the kind of leaders the Indian National Congress had, you will find that you know millions of Indians, lacks and crows of Indians became members of the Congress party uh during the pre947 period. Okay. But the leaders of the Congress party, if you see who they were, they were almost exclusively English-speaking in British educated people and all more or less um you know predisposed towards a nonviolent resistance of the British occupation of India, not violent resistance, right? Uh and then you had uh the great Mr. Nehu and the great Mr. Gandhi. You also had the great Mr. Patel and then you had Mr. Bose Subhashundra Bose who became the president of the INC but who was then outmaneuvered by Mr. Gandhi. Mr. Gandhi engineered a coup within the Indian National Congress that ousted Mr. Bose from the presidency or leadership of the Indian National Congress. So Mr. Gandhi knew that Mr. Bose was not a pacifist. He was he did not believe in nonviolence. He believed in getting rid of the British by hook or by crook. And that's why Mr. Gandhi was against Mr. Bose and he outmaneuvered him and engineered a political coup against Mr. Bose. And eventually when you had India's so-called independence in 1947 which was actually dominion status uh then the uh then there was a vote an internal vote within the congress party okay about who will become the first prime minister of India and you would have different congress congress uh you know divisions shakas or whatever it was within India who would their leaders would come and you know vote for who will become the first prime minister of India. And the majority of the votes went for Mr. Patel. So Sardar Patel and no one voted in favor of Mr. Nero. So Mr. Gandhi took Mr. Patel for a walk and he said Patel, Mr. Patel, you need to withdraw your candidature and support Mr. Neu. And so Mr. Patel agreed to what Mr. Gandhi said. He obeyed the order. He withdrew from the candidature. And despite Mr. Neu not getting any votes, he became he was appointed by Mr. Gandhi as the first prime minister of India and it was Mr. Neu who was a Fabian socialist. I don't think there were too many other Congress leaders who were Fabian socialists. It was Mr. Nu who was that and Fabian socialism was all about very slow very gradual economic growth. It wasn't about massive progress and massive rapid natural growth. Fabian socialism was about slow gently gently gently gently growth and that's what Mr. Nehu was all about. So Mr. Gandhi ensured that a Fabian socialist becomes the prime minister of India and that ensured that India suffered from the Nehuian rate of growth for decades and those precious decades were lost when India could have grown very rapidly and that's the deal. Kunal Vashish says assume that Trump is a genius and is playing a long-term game. Please analyze the ad with the the the advant advantage America will have with economic collapse, resources, currency, food etc. Assume Trump is a genius. Okay, let us uh play a game of suspension of disbelief. You see when you watch certain movies sometimes you have to suspend your disbelief and say okay this doesn't make sense but okay let's play along and just so that we are entertained let's let's assume that's correct. some stupid things they will show which don't make any sense in real life but okay let's let's just watch it let's suspend our disbelief and let's watch the movie so that we are entertained so you are asking me to suspend my disbelief and assume that Trump is a genius and it's playing some kind of long-term game so what advantages will the US have with economic collapse resources currency food etc look if Trump is a genius the US wins this war if the US wins this war, everything will be hunky and dory. Okay. The straight of hormones will open again. The world will have oil on America's terms from Iran. Uh the US dollar will stay strong. Resources will be available every to to whoever wants on American terms. So if Trump is a genius, then America wins this war and everything is fine for the US. And if Trump is not a genius, then the US loses this war and then everything goes wrong for the US. Okay. So if Iran wins this war and the straight of Horbus remains closed or it remains open only on Iran's terms and if the Houthis can block the Babal Bandibit then nations like India, Japan etc will have to purchase oil from the US. So that is advantageous for the US. But if the US is forced to withdraw from West Asia because Iran has won the war, then Iran and all the Gulf nations will sell oil in nond dollar currencies, probably Chinese yuan. That weakens the US dollar gradually over time and significantly. And that's very bad for the US. It's a disaster for the US, right? Their economy will will be in very bad shape. There'll be inflation. There will be prices going out of control. there'll be shortages. So if Trump is a genius and he wins the Iran war, then everything is fine long term. But if Trump is a genius and loses the Iran war, then things don't look good for the US. Okay. Hershit Par says, can we expect RA with Iran instead of India? The RIC with Iran is already there kind of right because see Russia and Iran have strategic military cooperation. Iran has been supplying very large quantities of Shahed drones to Russia which Russia has been employing in the Ukraine war. China and Iran also have a long-term strategic partnership. Okay, they have signed a strategic agreement a 25ear strategic agreement. So you already have that sort of RA Russia, Iran, China. But uh the more powerful RA that could emerge would be Russia, India, China. But uh um I'm not sure how viable that is. It will all depend on the outcome of the Iran war. If Iran wins this war, if the US is forced to withdraw from West Asia, India will have way more leverage over the US in a variety of things and India, you know, may behave very different from the way it's behaving right now. So it will all depend on what happens, what's the outcome of this current war. Jimmy Lee says, "Please check the latest shard of Turin finding." I I saw some I saw the news reports. So scientists have analyzed the DNA from the sh of Turin and they have found that about 40% of the DNA seems to be of Indian origin and even the fibers seem to have been uh manufactured in the Indis Valley uh region or the western Indian region. So it looks like this shroud was manufactured in India. And then it ended up in Europe and the DN. Okay, let's let's see what our friend Google has to say. Shroud of Turin. What's it say? What's the news? Okay, let's see. India, what's the news? A 2026 DNA analysis of the shot of Turin conducted by University of Padawa researchers found that nearly 40% on the human DNA of the Indian human DNA on the cloth has Indian lineages suggesting that len was likely manufactured or sourced from the ancient India in this valley or wherever else um South Asia to hell with your South Asia it's India so researchers used advanced technology next generation se sequencing on 1978 sample materials to identify that near the roughly 38.7 to 40% of the DNA originates from Indian subcontinent lineages. The data suggests that the flax on the woven cloth itself was imported by Romans from India to the Mediterranean often linked to the term Hinduin in historical texts. Uh the study also identified DNA from various plants, animals, cats, dogs, pigs, and other regions indicating the cloth was exposed to numerous environments over centuries with 55.6% of the DNA originating from the near east and 5.5% from Western Europe. While this suggests an Indian origin for the material, researchers caution that the contamination shows the cloth was handled by diverse populations throughout history, etc., etc., etc. Okay. So the material was of Indian origin. It doesn't and the study doesn't suggest that that this shroud was actually used to to wrap the body of Shri of Shri Jesus Christ, Mr. Christ. Um and it doesn't suggest that if Mr. Christ did exist then he was of Indian origin. Nothing like that. The material is of Indian origin. Okay. Lalita Ananta says big fan of you. Thank you so much sir or ma'am. listening listening to your ask shows offline for the past two years unlearning and learning many things. Thank you very much for everything you're doing and for educating us. Thank you so much for your very kind and generous comment. Thank you so much. I really appreciate it and you are very welcome indeed. Thank you. Prashant Panor says will it make sense for the US to use Pakistan for an invasion? Maybe. Maybe. Because if we look at the map, the map tells us half the story, more than half the story. See, it's an option the US will consider. Look here, we have our region. You have Iran over here. And east of Iran, you have Afghanistan and Pakistan. Pakistan shares a pretty large border with with Iran. Uh the Balojasthan region which is split between Pakistan and and Persia and Iran, right? So um and very close to the uh Pakistan border roughly about 100 kilometers or so you're the you're the big port of Chabahar. So if the Americans want to make a move on Chabahar and Kodarak they could perhaps activate Pakistani troops or whatever and have this happen. The question is if they do this will they be able to hold on to these boards? Possible if Pakistan gets involved directly in the matter possible potentially or maybe not. We'll have to see. But see, if the Americans want to take uh take some island like for example Kirk Island, it's almost impossible to take it because the Americans can't transit the straight of Hormos without getting destroyed. So it actually makes more sense to perhaps go after Chavahar or something. But maybe I'm wrong, maybe I'm right. We'll see about that. So the US could, you know, at some point in time activate Pakistan and use Pakistan against Iran. Pakistan is is is a mercenary nation. They will do whatever their master tells them to do as long as there is something in it for them. Pratush Paul says what if and when EU cave into Trump's threats and join the war and in response Russia and China join to what will or should be India's response. Okay. So let's say Trump keeps threatening the Europeans and forces them to join the war against Iran. Okay. So let's say hypothetically the Europeans send uh troops and they send fighter planes and perhaps ships to the region. Well, that is obviously something that will augment America's the American strike capabilities against Iran and that will be bad news for Iran potentially, right? More pressure on on Iran and Iran is now long no longer fighting a seven eight front war. It's fighting a 12 13 15 front war. That's how it becomes. So in that case it's possible that Russia and China may get involved directly. It may it may also mean that Russia makes some very drastic moves in potentially in Ukraine. Many things could happen as a consequence of this. So let's say European nations get involved, Russia and China also gets involved get involved in this war. Maybe Pakistan also gets involved in the war. What should India's response be? India's response should be we stay out of this war. This is not our war. We are a neutral neighbor of Iran. We have not started the war and we will not participate in the war. It is not our business. It's not our concern. And we should simply say that we urge restraint and we urge everybody to stop fighting and and negotiate and find a peaceful solution. That's all we should do. Nothing more. But we should be prepared at all times for any Pakistani potential Pakistani treachery or any other thing. Yours classically says, "Will Iran actually cut under sea data cables?" Well, it depends on how badly Iran is being uh is being hit by the Americans and Israelis. At some point in time, Iran may do that. Yeah. If the Americans and Israelis keep on hitting Iranian power generating stations, um oil reservoirs, universities, schools, cities, whatever. At some point in time, Iran will say, "Okay, we'll do this, too. So it depends on how badly they are provoked by the Americans in Israelis. Yeah, they they may actually do it. P Shukla says, "Namaste Rig, thank you." Namaste. US has been number one superpower for about 40 years now. 40 years. Yeah, 40 years. Okay. Since the collapse of the USSR, um 40 years 36 35 35 or so years. Okay. Uh don't you think it's be that had it been another nation world may be much worse I know the US is bad too especially for bat but probably the best wikal world had well that's ifs and buts let's say let's say the USSR had won the cold war do you think the world would be so much worse than what it is under US hgemony I'm not sure let's say in world war II it's Germany that won hypothetically you think there'll be there would have been much worse than the Americans. I don't know about that. I don't know about that. I think all hedgeims are alike. They're all alike in different ways. So in India, we we have this great love for the Anglo, right? We were under British occupation for two two and a half centuries. We are very comfortable with the Anglo culture in their language. And that's why we see something of us in them somehow. Yeah. We understand them. We we we like their cinema. We like their movies. We like their TV series. We like their social media. We understand them. We feel like we are part of the same world. That sort of thing. But if it was Russia, if it was somebody else, then it would it would be a different language. It would be very alien to us. So we don't feel comfortable. But that's not the case in my opinion. Doesn't m matter what language an oppressor speaks. operators are all pretty much the same. Okay. So, I don't think it would have been it would have made much of a difference if it was the USSR that had actually won the cold war or if it was Germany that was ruling the world. I don't think it would have made much of a difference. For example, 800 years ago, the Mongols rampaged across the world. Uh in the 13th century, Chingghis Khan smashed Persia to bits, didn't he? Not Persia, but the Quarasmian Empire. Shah Muhammad II who had been very cruel to Chistan's trade envoys. So in response, Chingistan smashed and obliterated the Quarasbian Empire which ruled over Persia. The Quarasbian Empire was a Turk Empire. So initially when the Mongols rampaged across the region, they would have looked incredibly cruel and completely alien to the Persians. But once the Mongols conquered the place, they turned out to be actually very good rulers, right? Despite being so strange and alien to the Persians. So it's not like, you know, it makes much of a difference who the who the hon is. Yeah. If it is Timur, it's a disaster. If it is Chingis, well, he was not that bad of a ruler. He was actually a pretty benevolent ruler. So, it depends. I I don't think if it was Russia instead of the US, it would have been much worse. Pinhaar says, if Iran acquires nuclear weapons, what is the possibility that it will remain a Chinese vasal or will Iran itself be in the superpower race? No. Iran will be in the stable sovereign nations list. There are six only six genuinely sovereign nations in the world. Which are these genuinely sovereign nations? The US, Russia, China, India, Israel, and Iran. That's six. These are the only genuinely sovereign nations in the world. Iran is not anyone's vasal right now. It is fighting multiple nations, very powerful nations all alone. The only assistance it's getting from China and Russia is satellite imagery and uh satellite positioning systems. And Russia and China are helping Iran because of their own uh you know because it it serves their their interests. So it's Iran is no one's vasal and if Iran acquires nuclear weapons then its u sovereignty will become stable because then nobody will want to mess with Iran especially after seeing the the ballistic missile and drone capabilities Iran has once they acquire nuclear weapons nobody will want to mess with them so Iran will be a major regional power maybe a great power see without a massive economy you can't be considered to be a great power but a major regional power it will be it won't be a superpower any anywhere close to being a superpower but a major regional power okay Somalia Paul says fan for the last four years thank you so much thank you for opening the eyes also you know I was checking about who is the owner of the Fed they have hidden the fact first of all thank you so much thank you so much you're very welcome and yes it's interesting to go and uh go down the rabbit hole and try to uncover who actually owns the Federal Reserve Bank of the United States and you'll just go deeper and deeper into the rabbit hole and you'll keep going in circles and you won't find who actually owns it. That's how it is. The whole thing is structured in the US. So you have a privatelyowned bank that actually runs the economy of the US and owns the economy of the US and you don't know who owns this private bank, who the major shareholders are. So the US is actually it's actually owned. It's a privately owned nation and we don't know who the who the owners are. That's the situation, isn't it? Incredible. D Kat says, "I am afraid of the census. It may embolden Hindu phobes. See the census, it's a statistical, it's a it's a statistical exercise, right? It's about collecting data and then presenting the findings to the nation. And obviously things will change, right? uh demography demographics will have changed since 2011. Religious demographics may have changed. The percentage uh of certain populations, religious groups may have changed and and certain the population of certain religious groups may have decreased, some may have increased and so on. Some may be hidden away and they may still be misporting what they really are and so on so forth. So I'm not sure how it will embolden Hindu folks. I'm not able to understand how it could be the case and I I don't know why you're afraid of the census. I think it is very important that we get the census done so that we know what the current officially recorded situation is. What's the actual population of the country? What's the population distribution? What are the demographics like? It's important that we know the the facts about our country. So I think it's a good thing even if it may potentially scare you. It is always better to face the truth than to hide from it. Abida Singh says is a is Donald Trump a blessing in disguise for the world just like Ra Rahul Gandhi is for the BJP. Okay. No comments about Indian politics. Is Donald Trump a blessing in disguise for the world? See Donald Trump has started this war. Okay. uh at the behest of Israel it looks like and the longer this war goes on the more painful it's going to be for much of the world for Australia for Japan for India for the European nations for Africa it's going to be painful for everybody so I'm not sure how it's a blessing at least in the short term long term if it ends up uh weakening the US and um you uh causing the the withdrawal of of U of the United States from West Asia. Well, that in the long run if if this happens, it may be a good thing for uh nations like India and Iran also for China etc. It may be good thing it may be a good thing for the whole world you know that this the hedgeimonyy is is declining. So long-term it may perhaps overall longterm may be a good thing but shortterm it's going to cause a lot of pain. Yeah. Aman Patania says DNA result of short of Turan says that Jesus might have 40% Indian DNA. Is that news correct? What's your thoughts? So I just took a look at uh what the the Google AI is saying. I haven't opened an actual research paper but what the AI says is that approximately 40% of the total DNA that was u studied on a small portion of the sample about 40% of the DNA was of Indian origin and the results show they indicate that the material was of Indian origin the fibers of the cloth were of Indian origin okay the DNA does not say that the blood or whatever may be on the sh of Turin was that of Mr. Christ of Mr. Jesus. There is no evidence that this this was on the body of Mr. Jesus. Okay? It's it's it's a story that's come along all this time, but there is no evidence that Mr. Jesus was was wrapped in this cloth. No evidence whatsoever. So, we don't even know if Mr. Jesus actually existed. And secondly, if he existed, we don't know that he that we have no evidence that he was wrapped in this shroud. And this 40% DNA, it's a it's related to see they they they found DNA samples of uh of cats, dogs, pigs and so many other things. But 40% of it is of Indian origin, which seems to indicate that the fibers the fibers of the cloth are of Indian origin. Maybe western India, the Indis Valley region, that sort of thing. So it does not indicate anything. It the result doesn't say that Mr. Jesus was of Indian origin. Nothing like that. Okay. Yashaswini Kmini Yashwini Kini says, "Hello sir, how do you think we as a country can develop civic sense in our country?" It's very simple. It's very easy to develop civic sense. The government needs to guarantee that if somebody breaks the rules, there's going to be a guaranteed punishment every single time. Every single time somebody spits on the street, that person should be guaranteed a heavy fine. Okay? And every time if you spit, if you're in this habit of spitting and you spat five times yesterday and the the fine is 500 rupees per spit per per incident, then then if you spat five times on the on the street yesterday and today you have a fine of 2,500 rupees and if if you keep doing it and you keep getting fined, then you're going to stop. So if the punishment is guaranteed, then people will have the incentive to stop doing this. That's how the Singaporeans change things. They imposed heavy fines for things like public urination, public spitting and whatever else, jaywalking, whatever. So, initially Singapore was a third world nation with very low standards. But within 20 years, everything had changed. Everything was transformed. It's all about the government enforcing the rules. In India, we have all kinds of rules and laws on paper, but nothing is enforced. Nothing is implemented. And that's why people do whatever they want. People have to be trained the way we train children. And the same Indians when they go to other countries, they are the most well- behaved people. They will never spit on a street. They will never do any of those things. Right? Because there you have proper enforcement. So Indians are by nature a law-abiding people. But then there is no enforcement of law and there are no consequences. People do whatever the hell they want. So it's very simple. You can keep lecturing people the way you can keep lecturing children. See, you can lecture children for hours and hours and hours. It'll go in through one year, go out from the other ear. Instead of lecturing, if you give guaranteed punishment for misbehavior, the behavior will change very rapidly. Lecturing people and say we need to have better standards and better citizens will make no difference. Enforce the laws, guarantee punishment. which means that our authorities start to do what they are being paid to do. Okay, that's what needs to happen. Empty box says what leverage Israel has with the US. Looks like Israel is ruling the US. I don't know what leverage the the Israelis have with the US. People say maybe there's something to do with the Epstein files. Remember the Epstein files just uh a few weeks ago it was all over the news. Now people have completely forgotten it because of this war. So um maybe there are big secrets hidden away in the Epstein files. I mean from whatever little I saw on social media it was disgusting and sickening and maybe very very powerful people uh they are compromised in the Epstein files. Okay. And it is alleged that Epstein had links with Israel. So maybe Israel has all the all the evidence about various powerful people in various um in various roles in the US government potentially. Yeah. Or possibly. So that's one speculation and maybe there's some other leverage also perhaps I don't know it's possible. Sesh says post war if the US focuses west and a multipolar south emerges shouldn't we prioritize Iran Russia oil pipeline by taking P we another obsession with P by taking P or Southeast Asia trade control forget about P right now Indians forget about P for now okay if the US focuses west and a multipar south no multipolar south will emerge What? See what is a multipart south like a multiparter south means you have nations like India and is and and Indonesia and Malaysia and Vietnam and Iran and Saudi Arabia and these are all more or less equal nations and China and North Korea all these nations are all independent and sovereign and are all reasonably powerful in their own in their own right that's a multipolar south that is not going to in the global south. Now if if the US moves out of West Asia, we're going to have India, Iran and China as the powerful nations. So it's a tripolar south and I and India and Iran have no enemity of any kind as such. But China will not want a multipolar global south. They will they will want a unipolar global south. So anyway, forget about the multipolar angle. If if the US moves out of West Asia, uh we should buy Iranian and Russian oil for sure. We don't need to take P for that. The Americans will not give up P. They will not give up Pakistan. If we if we take it, well and good, but I don't see it happening soon. I hope I'm completely wrong. I hope I'm completely mistaken about that. So, what we should do is we should simply buy Iranian oil through oil tankers from the state of Hormos. Takes like 3 4 days to come. What's the big deal? Push says Qatar Qatar gave the biggest bribe to Trump. Saudi invested the most in the USA and got the biggest hit on their land. How must they have felt? It's it's actually if you if you put yourself in the shoes of Qatar and Saudi Arabia, it's it's painful. It's tragic, isn't it? The government of Qatar gave an entire gigantic aircraft as as a as a gift as a bribe to Trump and Trump did nothing to protect Qatar when the war happened. Saudi Arabia has has bought tens maybe hundreds of billions worth of American weapons. Right? So they have invested and they've bought American treasury bonds and God knows what. They've invested a lot in the US and when the war happens, Saudi Arabia is hit. The Americans had promised that we are, you know, we are we are installing these military bases on your soil to protect your territory from the Iranians. But when the war happened, there was no protection. The American bases themselves were destroyed by the Iranians. And every nation in the Gulf got the impression that the Americans were more interested in in protecting Israel than the Gulf nations. Yeah. So they will I guarantee you they will have this strong sense of betrayal right now that the Americans have lied to them. They've betrayed them. They've used them. And these military bases were more about controlling those nations, the Gulf nations, than than for protecting the Gulf nations. Abhishek Patil says, "If the US controls nuclear weapons of Pakistan, why did India agree to a ceasefire with Pakistan? What's the real reason behind the ceasefire?" The real reason potentially is Trump blackmailing India and ordering India to stop the war. Otherwise, I will impose 3 million different kinds of sanctions and tariffs on you. The US can destroy an economy by doing that. Right? So whatever the government of India says, okay, we have to say that for diplomatic purposes, uh, but most likely it is Trump's arm twisting tactics that most likely stop the war. Most likely because we we hit some very valuable US assets in Pakistan. For example, one of the valuable US assets in Pakistan is the nuclear weapons. Okay, American nuclear weapons which most likely are are handled only by Americans. Pakistanis are not even allowed near those nuclear weapons. There are some military bases where the Pakistanis are not allowed. Only Americans are are allowed. Then there is the F-16s that the Americans have sold to the Pakistanis. Those F-16s, each of those F-16 fighter planes, it is babysat. There are babysitters for it. These are American babysitters, American technicians and American personnel who babysit every single F-16 and never let the aircraft out of their sight. So if India destroyed a number of F-16s in Nurhan air base or whatever, there would have been American personnel there who would also have been hit by the Indian missiles. So once that happens, Trump will immediately pick up the fall the phone and uh and demand that India stops the war. Right? I think Trump did not imagine that India will start doing so much damage to Pakistan so rapidly. I mean within a matter of a few hours, India hit 11 Pakistani air bases and if the war had continued another 48 hours, Pakistan would have been essentially destroyed militarily at least. So that's why the Americans that's why Trump um insisted demanded threatened he demanded a a stop of the war immediately and afterwards Mr. Modi gave an gave a live address to the nation. You could see his anger. So you could see the anger in his face at the time. So I think that's what happened. Matt Blackbeard says, "Why are Russians being cozy with Pakistan and offering them discounted oil? Also, Iran is refusing Pakistan's mediation and calling India to mediate." Look, oil is not a strategic asset. Okay? Uh if you are an oil exporter, you will export it to everybody. The Russians, for example, okay, they export uranium to the United States. Okay. They also export rocket engines to the United States. Now, I think it's stopped now, but even after the Ukraine war, Russia was exporting uranium and rocket engines to the United States. The US is Russia's number one enemy, right? So, it's about money. Russia needs money. So, it will sell these things even to the US. And when it comes to oil, it's not a strategic asset, right? It's not some sensitive thing. So, they'll sell it to Pakistan. What's the big deal? I don't see that being Russia being cozy with Pakistan. It's simply selling oil. I mean India and China are not on good terms, very good terms. But China still sends sells things to us. We we also sell things to China. So this is business. This is nothing nothing to do with strategic interests. Uh Iran is refusing Pakistan's mediation because Iran knows Pakistan's treacherous nature. Okay. India Iran knows that Pakistan is an American vasal. A couple of years ago, Iran and Pakistan had a very brief border conflict and they fired missiles at each other's territory and Iran accused Pakistan of doing crossber terrorism in Iran's territory. So Iran doesn't like Pakistan. Iran is not a fan of Pakistan. Iran does not trust Pakistan. So Pakistan says Sar will mediate then Iran will say go to hell. Right. Um yeah. So has Iran asked for India to mediate? I'm not sure. Let's let's fact check that. I am not aware of that having happened. Maybe I'm not aware. Let's see. Iran India mediation um mediation mediation mediation has India asked has Iran has Iran asked India to mediate in the war? No. Yeah, they have. Okay, let's see. Iranian government sources and representatives have expressed that India is the trusted friend and welcomed its potential role in mediating to reduce tensions in the ongoing West Asia conflict with some officials stating that India could be an effective positive mediator as per Indian media reports. Da da da da. Okay. Um Okay. So whatever look I am not a big fan of India mediating in all these matters. This is not our conflict. If we going to mediate in the war what do we gain out of it? Okay potentially we could help end the war but there is no guarantee of it. I think India should stay out of this matter. Indians you know a lot of Indians are they they hanker after prestige and status. You know we mediated the end of the war. Stay out of this matters and the Americans don't want India as a mediator. Okay. Trump doesn't want India as a mediator. So, um it's all right. Katos Aryasi says is difference of Iran and Pakistan despite Islamification, Iran proudly admires its pre-Islamic heritage and calls Arabs and other invaders as barbarians. I think that's the main difference between Iran and Pakistan. See, um, Iran is a roughly, you see, about, if you look at the past 3,000 years of Iran's history, it's been ruled by at least 25 dynasties and empires, okay? starting from the Medians to the Aeminids to the you know Macedonians and Salucids and Parththeians and Sassanids and Rashidon Umayad um Abbasid and so on and so forth caliphate caliphate and then then the Mongols then the Turks that theids then the Seljuks the Safavidids and the Haku moons for a bit 7 8 9 years or whatever it was then by the Turks again Nadasha and then by the Kajar dynasty again Turk and then the Pahelis who were British puppets and American puppets and so on. So long long history of Iran of all these ups and downs and they've had certain very catastrophic periods of time. The one one of the major catastrophes was for Iran was Alexander's destruction of Persia. That's number one. The second major catastrophe was the Arabic invasion and occupation of Iran and the destruction of Iran's traditional religious uh religion and culture. Okay, that's the second most devastating second devastating thing. The third devastating thing was the Mongol conquest of the Quoras Empire which included Iran. And it was not the fault of the Persians. It was the fault of the godamned sha of Qurasma idiot person and his cowardly son. But somehow Iran has always maintained it has always retained its language and it has actually exported its architecture and art and music and cuisine and standards to the Islamic world. So Iran has essentially despite having forced to become an Islamic nation, it has exported non-religious aspects of culture throughout the Islamic world and the Persian standards became the glo the global Islamic standards. So even in India, the Muggal Empire, the Muggal dynasty, they adopted Persian standards and Persian uh ways of doing things and all. So Persia has somehow en ensured that its its culture endures in some shape or form through the language through the architecture through various other things right and uh in the 20th century when you had uh Razash Sha who was the puppet the British puppet who ruled Persia he was not very fond of Islam and he made it a point to emphasize Persia's pre-Islamic culture as one of the civilizational foundations of of Iran, of Persia, right? Um, and the Persian people are proud are they they they they are rightfully proud of their long-standing uh, you know, history, long-standing civilization and culture and history despite having lost their religion to foreigners. Uh so if you the thing about if you compare Persia and Pakistan is this if you remove Islam hypothetically okay completely hypothetically from Persia you still have Persian culture and the Persian language but Persian culture which is distinctly Persian it did not come from anywhere else. If you remove Islam hypothetically from Turkey, they still have Turk Turkish culture. If you remove Islam from Pakistan, what do they have? They're just Indians, right? So the Pakistanis are deeply they they they want to be anything except anything other than Indians, right? They are very deeply ashamed of their forefathers having having been Hindus and all that. So Iran is proud of its pre-Islamic heritage and Pakistan is ashamed of its pre-Islamic heritage. That's the biggest difference between the two uh nations says and Pakistan calls Turk invaders like Kilji Baba as heroes disavows its Hindu past. So Iran acts to preserve its sovereign identity against Turks and Arabs. Exactly. Exactly. That's the deal, right? The the Pakistanis they glorify the Kilgis and the and and the Gaznis and the the Gaznavis and the Goris and Babar and Orurange. All these barbarians who brutalize their own ancestors, they are glorified today, right? And they want to distance themselves from their actual past which is their their Indian and Hindu past. So yeah, that's the difference between Pakistan and Iran really. Now Miss Patel says US Israel hard power falling. Iran are so courageous. Well, you've got to admire what Iran is doing. We in India worry about fighting a two-front war, two and a half front war. Iran is fighting simultaneously against five, six, seven countries, eight countries, nine countries, I don't know. US, Israel, um technically Kuwait, Iraq, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Bahrain, UAE, that's nine. Oman 10. It's fighting a 10-front war. Even Azarbaijan 11 front war. Yeah. Iran is fighting an 11front war right now and well they clearly locally have more hard power and firepower than the US and Israel. Clearly they do. So yeah, you got to admire what the Iranians are accomplishing here. You don't have to agree with their their government or whatever, but what they are doing on a military front from a in a professional manner. If you are a military professional, you you you are bound to admire what they're doing and respect what they're doing. Okay. Pad a pagadi akai. Yeah. Thank you so much. Thank you very much. A really now Patel says Iran is showing Iran are showing how it's done. The empire can be shaken. Yes. And why is Iran able to show how it's done? Because they have prepared really really well. They've put in the hard hard work. They've done their homework and they've analyzed their opponent's strengths and weaknesses and their own strengths and weaknesses really really well and they've taken all the measures necessary to ensure that they they come out um successful. So it's really tremendous uh professionalism and you got to going to respect what they're doing. Shatabish Shatabish says stakes for China are are highest with Iran compared to low sustainable during Synindur and Venezuel Venezuela. That's why it's providing the best technology to Iran. What Ukraine is to the US, Iran is to China. That is a proxy war. No, Iran is not a Chinese proxy. Ukraine is an American proxy. Yes, Iran is a sovereign nation. It is fighting on its own. China is providing satellite imagery and perhaps the BU positioning system and China is doing this because if Iran falls it's a disaster for China. So China is doing it doing this for its own interests. Okay, not because Iran is a Chinese proxy or a Chinese vasal. Okay. So yes stakes the stakes are very high for China when it comes to Iran. They they can't afford to see Iran fall to the US and to Israel. If Iran is taken out, it's going to be an absolute disaster for China because they'll be left with Russia only. Um, and yeah, it's providing high quality satellite uh positioning uh data services to Iran and the satellite uh imagery uh that it is providing to Iran. Yes. Fields strong maners. You've said that a civilization is a net exporter of culture and not importer. You've also said that US is an empire not a civilization. Means a civilization is not necessary to dominate culture. Since America is dominating now, can one differentiate burger vocism rap versus yog? What? Since America is dominating now, can one differentiate burger, vocism, rap versus yogan future? I have no idea what any of that means. See what have I said? What have I said? A civil, there are multiple characteristics. There's a whole set of characteristics that a civilization has. One of those characteristics is that a civilization is a net exporter of culture, not an absorber or importer of culture. Okay. I've also said that the US is an empire, not a civilization because the US does not have many of the characteristics that a civilization has. Does it mean that a civilization is not necessary to to dominate culture? No, it's you don't have to be a civilization to dominate culture. You don't have to be a civilization to export culture. You don't need to be a civilization to be the dominant culture in the world. The Romans were not a civilization. They were an empire. And yet they exported their culture as long as they were dominant. The whole of Europe started speaking Latin. Today if you look at the text over here, what script is this? We are speaking this is the English language but the script is Latin. If you read Norwegian, it's the Latin script with slight modifications. If you read German, it's the Latin script with slight modifications. If you read French, it's the Latin script with slight modifications. If you read Italian, same things to all across Europe, apart from Russia, apart from Georgia and Armenia and and Greece. You have the Latin script. That's how much Rome exported its culture despite not being a civilization, despite being an empire. Okay. So, that's what I can tell you. I don't know about burger vocism and rap yoga. I have no idea about that. I'm not I'm not sure what you're asking. So, not clear. Dirj Kamat says if the 0.5 front Abrahamic supremacist supremacists know that Hindu population is reduced they will get emboldened further. The census should be kept secret. No it doesn't work like that. See in a nation like India the census has to be done periodically and the results have to be shared with the entire population. That's how it is done in India. India is a democracy isn't it? And I'm pretty sure the Hindu population will have reduced. I'm pretty sure. Yeah, I'm pretty sure because the way things are going, the Hindu population is is going to reduce. So I think it is important that we find out exactly what the situation is and so that people don't keep living in La La Land. I think it's important we know what's happening. It should not be kept secret. It should be publicized so that everyone understands what has been happening and how much the governments of the past few years or decades have slipped up very badly. in in safeguarding our civilization. MTB rider. Thank you very much. MTB rider. Ah, that's a that's a bike. Is it two-heer bicycle? MTB. Okay. International reporter says, "Have you did you watch the 4,000 crude Ramayana teaser? Your thoughts? I haven't seen it. I am not going to watch it. I'm not going to watch the teaser. I'm not going to watch the movie." Okay. I'm not watching it. I'm not going to waste my precious time watching what's his name as as Lord Ra as Sri Ram. Come on, I'm not watching it. Okay. MTB writer says, "Will Hindu Muslim population change in the future? These things are see population and demographics are never static." Okay, they're dynamic. Keep changing ups and downs and so on so forth. So I'm pretty sure the percentage of the Hindu Muslim population in India will change in the future. It will change. Pretty sure. Okay. Sarishi Chakra says, "Were the Europeans always so tall or after colonization?" See when the Europeans first started uh arriving in the Americas uh after see this guy Columbus discovered he thought he discovered India but he had discovered the Bahamas. So when he discovered the Americas in 1492 after that the Spaniards started arriving in the Americas greedy Spaniards looking for golden slaves and all that. Then the then the French and the English started arriving on the um on the east coast of the United States starting from Florida, Virginia, etc. All those regions and eventually went all the way up north. And whenever they met the natives, they were shocked to see how healthy and how tall the natives were compared to the Europeans. The Europeans were short, unhealthy, extremely dirty, unhygienic, etc. And the natives of the Americas were tall, very well constructed bodies and extremely healthy. So the native Americans were on average significantly taller than the Europeans. But then European the European diet changed because of the industrial revolution and the plenty plentiful production of food and everything else. And that's why when you have a better diet, your body also changes. Um even the Chinese the past few decades they have also grown taller. Right? The Dutch weren't tall 200 years ago. Today they are the tallest people in the world. It all depends on the diet. Okay. Lakshadep Bhutak says Iran US war is to stop growth of India China. The what's the objective of the Iran of the war against Iran? Right. You have two nations who are attacking Iran. One is Israel, the other is the US. Both seem to have different objectives. For the US, it's about controlling Iran's oil because Iran's oil accounts for about 15 to 20% of China's oil imports. If you stop that, it's a massive blow to China. So for the US, it's all about oil. Oil. Oil. Why did they go off to Venezuela? Because Venezuela has a big the world's largest reserves, proven reserves of oil. That oil is heavy SAR oil or whatever, but it's still oil, right? So the Americans have taken that over. Now they want to take over Iran's oil and that's why they've done the war also because Israel dragged them into the war and Israel has a different set of objectives. Israel wants to be the only hijab in the region and the only thing standing in their way is Iran and also Iran says that Israel doesn't have the right to exist and so on. So obviously Israel can't accept that. So So it's not about India as much as China for the US. Of course, the US also has this this policy of containing India. Right now they have this containment policy against India which they are implementing. But mainly it's about China and about securing taking control of Iran's oil for the US. Pratip Kumar Roy says, "Sometimes I feel like the same powers are controlling both the US and Russia and also Israel and India and we are all just actors in this grand game." Well, who knows? Maybe it's true what you're saying. I have no idea. I can only discuss what I can see. There's a lot that I'm aware that we are unable to see. There's a lot that's hidden and shrouded behind secrecy. So yeah, sometimes one can potentially get that sort of feeling. What can I say? Ankita Kachab good evening ma'am question how is Judaism different from Zionism are not no not all Jews are Zionist question mark what's your opinion on project Israel of the US looks like we have been shown or told only one side of the story by the mainstream media please shed some light Zionism versus Judaism Judaism is the religion which is about 3,000 years old it's the religion of the Jewish people which originally was a polytheistic religion and then slowly morphed into a monotheistic religion with one god one and only one god which is Yahweh. Uh and they had a variety of other gods. I forget the names of their gods because they're hard to pronounce and hard to remember but the main god is Yahweh today. I mean the only god. So it's a monotheistic religion but it used to be polytheistic. So Judaism is there. It's got a 3,000 year year old history. Zionism as far as I understand it is political it's it's the political demand for see in the after the Jews were expelled from Israel by the by the Romans they spread all across Europe and other parts of the world and for roughly 2,000 years they were out of their homeland which is present day Israel that region Judea So in the 18th in the 19th century and the early 20th century there was a demand for a nation for the Jews and that is Zionism. Okay. The the the the desire and demand of the Jews to have their own homeland and a powerful and strong and secure homeland that is Zionism. So they have achieved their objective of having their own nation Israel. It's been recreated after a gap of I don't know about 2,000 or so years. So now that the nation exists, what is Zionism? It still exists, right? Zionism still exists. I am not very clear about what Zionism is. So let's let's do one thing. I will also educate myself. What is Zionism in the present day context? What is Zionism? Let's see. A nationalistic nationalist political and ideological movement that emerged in the 19th century Europe advocating for the creation and later support of a Jewish state in Palestine. Yeah. So its core goal is to ensure the safety, sovereignty and self-determination of the Jews in response to historical persecution and systematic systemic anti-semitism. Okay. So that's what it is. Yeah. So it's achieved its objective of having of creating a Jewish state and now it's about uh safety and sovereignty and self-determination of the Jewish people. So yeah, it's about having a strong Israel. That is what Zionism is. And there are various different kinds of Jewish denominations and different kinds of viewpoints, political viewpoints among the Jewish people. And I'm sure that there are plenty of Jews who are not Zionist. Yeah. Right. So, okay. Now, what is my opinion on Project Israel of the US? I am not aware of Project Israel of the US. What is that? Project Israel of the US? I am not aware of it. Let's see. Project Israel of the US. What is that? I'm not aware of any project. Are you talking about a greater Israel project? Are you talking about something else? So there is no project Israel that the US has the US uh the US offers unconditional support to Israel in whatever Israel does. Is that what you're referring to as project Israel? I'm not 100% certain. If you're asking me why does the US support Israel always unconditionally no matter what happens it's because the Jewish diaspora is extremely powerful and influential in the US in the 1920s or whatever about almost 30% of New York's population was Jewish and many of them were very wealthy and very powerful very connected and so on and the Jewish diaspora is very well tight is very tightly tightly knit very well connected very influential very powerful in the US A lot of very highranking politicians and officials in the US are are Jewish and the Jews always support Israel no matter what. It's not they're not like Indians that once you become a US citizen you forget about India and and you know don't support India. It's not like that with the Jews. The Jews no matter what nationality they have they will always support Israel. So that that's why uh there is this very big uh Jewish constituency not very big but very powerful Jewish constituency in the US and since they're at all various levels of the US government including some of the highest levels uh that's why the US always and and they're in both parties the Republicans and Democrats equally. So it's not like if the Republicans come to power it's pro-Israel. If the Democrats come to power it's not pro-Israel. No doesn't matter who is in power it's always pro-Israel. That's why the US is so pro-Israel. Um, yeah, that's what I can tell you. Okay. Pratip Kumar Roy says, "Do you think the US will pull out of NATO soon?" I don't think it's going to happen soon. Okay. Uh, let me show you why. Um, where is that? Okay. Uh, so look at this. I'll show you. It won't happen anytime soon because of this. See, this is a piece of news from 2023, December 14. The US Congress approves a bill barring any president from unilaterally withdrawing from NATO. Okay, so any US president who wants to withdraw from NATO will need the approval of Congress and due process. And see once again over here this is a tweet from 2023 by Marco Rubio who is now the secretary of state of the US and he says says that no US president should be allow should be able to withdraw from NATO without Senate approval. Thankful to my colleagues in Congress thankful my colleagues in Congress passed this bipartisan measure. So he was part of the passing of this bill Marco Rubio. So this makes it difficult for a US president to just unilaterally quickly withdraw from NATO. It's not possible. They will need Senate approval and that will not be that easy. Okay. Rock says Russia, China, US all have expansion targets. As India becomes stronger, would where should we expand or shall we keep a defensive mindset? Um, Russia allegedly has expansionist targets. Um, Russia has shown no such tendencies. Russia from a military perspective is way more powerful than India. But it's not trying to conquer other nations territories. It's not. A few a couple of decades ago, Vladimir Putin had actually officially formally applied for Russia becoming a member of NATO, which means that he had no intention of expanding anywhere. He wanted a peaceful coexistence with other European nations. Of course, the US denied this request, right? And see, Russia is fighting Ukraine not as an expansionist project, but because they have no choice because they can't allow NATO to encroach into Ukraine. So Russia doesn't have any expansionist targets. China is an expansionist Germanic nation. The US also is that that's what they've done. So as India becomes stronger, should we also have expansionist tendencies? No, I don't think so. We should seek to liberate Tibet from Chinese occupation and we should seek to perhaps long-term reunify the subcontinent. Maybe it should be a 50 or 100 year project. can do can do it now right now with that sort of population radicalized population. So I think that's what we should do and right now we should not focus we should not try we should ensure that we don't get embroiled in any military confrontation with anybody the next 20 years we should keep our head down and work on becoming a major economy and a very powerful nation that's all Pratep Kumar Roy says did you watch the two views I haven't seen it yet I haven't seen it but I look forward to watching it very soon honest human says when can we expect your next podcast with de talks with Adi Your expressions are too interesting and fun to notice notice. Love your content anyways or always. Thank you very much. Um I suppose it'll happen sooner or later. We don't like plan for that. If something interesting happens, uh I may have a podcast with with uh Adi. We'll see about that. It's it's never something we we plan that you know we'll do it once a month or once in two weeks or whatever. It just happens on the fly. So we'll see. We'll see. And thank you so much. Thank you. MTB writer says will Muslims surpass Hindus in India's future when I have no idea. I don't discuss this religious matters. Okay. I don't discuss India's internal matters. I discuss geopolitics, history and science. This is there are plenty of channels which discuss these Hindu Muslim issues. This channel is not for that. I'm very sorry if you think it is if you got the impression that I I discuss this but I don't discuss these matters. I Yeah. Okay. Pratip Kumar Roy says, "Do you think the people who run this world are not very wise? I mean, they understand money and power but not life so much. What do you think?" I think the people who who run the world do it out of a sense of self-interest and they see people as statistics, not as as humans. I think Joseph Stal Stalin said it very well, right? One death is a tragedy. A million deaths is a statistic, right? So when you are a person who is ruling a very large nation, you can't allow yourself to be to be swayed by emotions that so many people died or so whatever. You have to look at it statistically from a numerical perspective and look at the long-term large scale macro interest of the nation. Of course, you should try and minimize human human suffering, but overall you have to look at the long-term and large scale thing. So when people are let's say ruling or running the world they will do it that way and they will have their own agendas. They may be very powerful people. They may also be very wise. But they their wisdom is going to serve them, not us. And they will of course understand money and power. And when you understand money and power, when when you get that that kind of power, uh it it it corrupts a lot of people. It intoxicates a lot of people. And then you stop valuing the the the the well-being and happiness of uh other people. I suppose Ankita G says, "Ah Singh wants to know, have you watched Durand? What's your view?" I haven't watched it yet, unfortunately. Um, yeah. So, I don't have any views or reviews right now. I look forward to watching it soon. I certainly will watch it, but I haven't come come around to watching it yet. E Republic of India says, "If the US invades Iran and asks Pakistan for support like air like air bases or a second front, could Pakistan indeed instead escalate with India to avoid backing a USIsrael effort and to satisfy domestic opinion?" Well, what does Pakistan gain from it? Pakistan gets a beating again from India, right? If the US asks Pakistan for support and Pakistan starts fighting with India, it's going to get a bloody nose again from India. India is militarily significantly superior to Pakistan. So, it's going to have its Nurhan and Bolari and other bases again smashed up by India. How does that serve Pakistan's interests? But what if it agrees to what the Americans are saying and starts fighting with Iran and then the Iranians destroy their bases. So I think if the Americans try to drag Pakistan into this war with war with Iran, it's going to be heads I win tail tails you lose for Pakistan. If it's fight if it fights Iran, it's going to get smashed up by Iran. And uh if it fights India, which doesn't make any sense, it's going to get bashed up by India also. So no good options for Pakistan. Okay. Lakshed Bhutak says you are a great person and role model. Carry on. Thank you so very much Luxib G. Thank you so much. Anves Sha Anveves Shauna has become a new member of the of the channel. Thank you so much Anvesha G and welcome to the channel's membership. Thank you so much and Anvesha G. Thank you very much indeed. Thank you. Okay. Pratip Kumar Roy says Malok is actually adrac and the sacrificial fire is anamele. The same fire that is used to initiate brahmos and also freemasons. Some say I don't know. Okay. I don't have any understanding or knowledge of these matters. I haven't studied the Abrahamic religions and Judaism is extremely obscure from my perspective. I don't know much about it. Uh I am aware of various Bal gods. I am vaguely aware of the existence of this god called Malik. I don't know what Andra Malik and Anameal is. Brahmos and Freemasons. I have absolutely no idea about this. So I I can't comment about this because I don't know anything about this. G Praaran has become a new member. Thank you so much for becoming a member and welcome to the channel's membership. Thank you so much. Anonymous says, "Any tips on time management? I'm 18 years old, male, big fan." Thank you very much. You're most welcome. Thank you very much. Time management. Tips on time management. See, um what would I would say about this is uh when you're doing time management, when you're planning for let's say the next day or the next week, don't make a big long list of tasks that you have to accomplish. Okay, in a day you should have only two or three major tasks, not more than that. If you have like 15 different tasks, it's going to it's going to burn you out. And a lot of those tasks are going to be tasks that don't really take you forward in the right direction. So, you should have maximum three tasks, major tasks in a day. And uh you should uh prioritize you should know at what time in the day your energy is the highest and that's that's the time in which you should do the most important and most mentally demanding or physically demanding tasks. Uh and yeah so so remember the 80/20 rule right 80% of your results come from 20% of the work that you do. So identify what is that 20% of the work that you do that produces 80% of the results and focus on that. Okay. Right. So that's what I can say in very brief. It's a very big and rich and deep topic but yeah. All right. All the best. Do well then and thank you. Rich Blaze says, "Is Trump a way for the US deep state to carry out dirty stuff so that the next person in power can get away by just staying by just saying this that that was Trump?" Maybe. Maybe. See, Trump is the right guy for the right time for the deep state. See, we we know very well that the United States doesn't really need a president to to to be governed. From 2020 to 24, you had Biden who was the president. Biden was not mentally there, right? He was not capable of taking care of himself. Forget about the country. And Kamala Harris was not competent enough to be the vice president. So, who was running running the country? Somebody was and it went fine. So, the US president really doesn't matter. Okay? And someone like Trump is useful to to shake up the world and make a mess of the world and change the whole system and destabilize the world. So see the US understood that the so-called rules-based world order that they had constructed over the past 70 or so years, it was now serving China and Russia and India more than it was serving the US. And that's why they decided to tear up this world order and create a new one. And for that sort of work, you need someone like Trump. And that's why they got Trump in into the position that he is right now. And let's see how Trump does does go goes about things. He's he's right now making a mess of the situation in Iran and if he doesn't do well then the next guy can come in and say you know what let's it's all Trump's fault and let's let's move forward from there from wherever we wherever we are. So yeah. Yeah. Pratib Kumar Royce says, "Your views about basketball as a sport. Full body workout far better than cricket and also football probably. It is a it's a super sport. I feel like basketball is a very fast game and it's a pretty fun game to play. A very very fast and yeah full body workout for sure. Yes, both arms, legs, back, core, shoulders, everything. Yes, it's a full body workout and uh yeah, I think it's a great sport. uh better than cricket certainly as a full body workout. You don't get that in cricket. You either you're standing and batting and you sprint a little bit or you're fielding waiting for the ball to come to you or if you're a spinner then what? So yeah, definitely better than cricket from from a full body workout perspective. Football football is a pretty active game, a pretty active sport. If you play a 90-minute game of football, then you may end up running 10 km as as an individual player unless you substituted. So that also is good but football doesn't have the upper arm workout that basketball gives you. So I think basketball overall is superior from that perspective. Alvin Rodriguez says it's a question of our future. Do we need a new minister in charge of the department of space in India and how can private sector contribute? I don't know who is the minister in charge of the department of space. I don't think uh there is a minister in charge of space. I don't know who it comes under. Does it come under the prime minister's office? I'm not sure. Look, you can create a new ministry for this, but if there is, see, what we need is a long-term 50-year plan of where we want to be in 50 years. By 2100, where do we want to be in the space race? What do we want to have accomplished by 2100? We need to start with that long-term vision and then we can move back, you know, reverse engineer it as to what should we do in the next five or 10 years, 5 to 10 years. So you always start with a big vision but for 2100 and then work backwards. Ask yourself that if I want to achieve this big these big goals by 2100 what should I have accomplished by 2050 and if I want to ac accomplish that by 2050 then what do I need to accomplish by 2030? So you move step by step like that and you make the plans and then you have a ministry that implements it and makes makes sure that this happens and you have to ensure that you get the right budget and everything else that the uh department of space needs. That's how it's supposed to be done. Now simply putting a minister is not going to solve any of the issues. You're going to have to completely revamp the whole the entire way we we're doing this right now. It looks like space is also something that okay we have it. It's nice to have let them keep doing something once in a while. That's the kind of approach and attitude we have right now towards space. So the entire approach, attitude, vision, uh ambition, all of that needs to change and if we don't have a vision, it looks like first of all. So we need to have a clear vision and goal for 2100 and 2050 and then we can start working forward. That's what needs to happen. Private sector contribute. Yes, certainly the private sector can contribute. We should encourage the priv private sector to start building rockets or at least rocket components, spaceship and space spacecraft components, uh motors and so much more. Yeah, we certainly can have the private sector contribute significantly if we make it easy for the private sector to to operate in this uh sector. Aid Singh says happy Hanuman Janti. Thank you very much. Happy Hanuman Janti to you and to all the viewers. Happy Hanuman Janti. Pratep Kumar Roy says Brahma Samaj I meant not Brahos. Oh okay. Okay okay okay. Brahmo Samaj. Interesting. Interesting. All right. Shini KNS says Trump's posture on hormones can weaken petro dollar a lot. Yes it can. If the US doesn't achieve its objectives in this war, if the out of West Asia because its because its military bases are gone, then Iran becomes the predominant hedgeman in the region and it can force all the Gulf nations to trans to do oil transactions in non US dollar currencies that can very badly weaken the petro dollar system. Yes. So if Trump is a genius, he should somehow find a way to win this war. Otherwise, it's going to impact the petro dollar significantly if Iran succeeds in surviving this war and coming out uh as the overall winner HR devices. Is there a possibility of some Muslims? No, I will not take Hindu Muslim questions. I'm not I'm not taking Hindu Muslim questions. I don't do it as a as a matter of policy on this channel. We don't discuss Hindu, Muslim and all that stuff. There are many channels that do that. This is not the channel for that. Okay? I'm very sorry. Push SA says, "Okay, as a new member." Well, thank you very much, Push, and and welcome to this channel's membership. Thank you so much. And that is it. That brings me to the end of today's live stream. All right. Thank you so much everybody. Um and I look forward to seeing you all this weekend. The next live stream will be uh today is Thursday, Friday, day of tomorrow, Saturday night, India time. So, thank you so much. Keep uh keep learning, keep asking questions, keep raising your standards. And I say I shall see you in the next live stream very soon. Until then, take care. Good day, good night. See you soon. Bye-bye for now.