[Music] Hey. Hey. Hey. [Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome back to Ask Abijit. Today we are in the 269th episode. I hope everybody is doing fantastic. Thank you so much for being on this live stream with me with your questions. We will take questions as many as possible. Super chat, non-super chat, whatever you decide. Uh we'll take as many as possible over the next couple of hours roughly. And let us see who all is there on the live chat. I can see Benjamin Netanyahu. I can see Rashmir from Rajasthan. Gorish KBJ Dikshit uh Kumar Kanesk Dave Akash Kotak anonymous scientist Bonjouro nationalist Mr. Saxa Kal Singh from Melbourne. Raja Akash Kumar. Dave Ash Dave Akash Kotak from London. Vehav Dangra from Tokyo Japan. Rohit Janged. Uh Geopolitical Dubai from Indor. Rahul Dunak. Kani Kumar Kanish Ashish Karan. Manoj Zawar. Who else do we have? I can see Gopinathra IP1s MC Leavin from Hawaii. Sher uh anonymous Rashik Odin, Vikas PJ, Vamshi, Khaleim, myself, Vimla, Chri, Lonely Raccoon, uh Chetan, Arada, Arindam Roy, uh good evening sir. Thank you so much. Thank you. Uh Rick Duta, Sep Krishna, Mr. Iron, Jay Dit once again. Uh I can see uh Shri Ram Chand Chandraa Namaha Ankita good evening Chaitan Aradia Rick Duta Prrenav Polar Bear Shubam Dubet Gopinat and so many other people anonymous is there Sher is there Nyer Happy Sharma Vikash PJ and everybody else. So thank you so much all of you for being on the live chat and let us take some questions. Uh Gorish is from Dublin. Good evening uh to you sir and everybody else. So let's take some questions. What do we have? Ashish Karan has asked recent Indo Bhutan talks is it possible is it possible to get Bhutan on board that Dalai Lama is could be reborn at a neutral place like Bhutan plausible deniability? No, there's no plausible denial deniability. There's no question of plausible deniability. We have taken this forward. Uh of course Bhutan will be on board. Bhutan is another Buddhist nation. Uh they practiced they practice Tibetan Buddhism. No question about it. So they will be perfectly on board with what we do and there's no well it's it's well it's not entirely impossible that the next Dalai Lama I mean the the the current Dalai Lama could be reincarnated maybe in Bhutan but most likely it'll happen among somewhere among the Tibetan diaspora the majority of which is in Bharatwash in India. So uh there's no need for plausible deniability. We have taken this forward. India has taken this forward and we are not going to hide behind plausible deniability or whatever. This is out in the open between us and China. So there we have it. Okay. Uh Kumar Kanesk says as India and the US are um long-term adversaries then why do they did they send an Indian astronaut in I I in the international space station and let India develop space technology to launch Gaganyan and build space station etc. Look the technology we are build we are developing is baby steps. They are on the verge of reaching Mars in a in a few years. We are talking about reaching earth orbit low earth orbit and sending an astronaut to the ISS is no big deal. It's not something that gives India tremendous strategic advantage. Right? But it's good optics. Indians celebrate when there's an Indian astronaut who goes to the international space station and Indians will think yes the US is our best friend most reliable friend. Look, they have done us such a great favor by sending an Indian astronaut to the International Space Station. It's nothing for them and we've we've paid for it. We have paid for it. It's not like they're doing it for free and they are letting India develop space technology, launch gaga, build space station. Well, we are doing it ourselves. We don't need their permission or approval to do that. Right? We are I mean they regard us as a long-term adversary. We don't regard anybody as an adversary. We simply want to do our own thing. Leave us alone. We will we want to be friends with everybody. We want to cooperate with everybody and we will rise as far as we can rise and our historic position was number one and that's what worries people. So that's the deal. It's just optics sending an Indian astronaut to the international space station. It's optics and we have paid for it. So Benjamin Natanyub says why do you always say I will never go against Pakistan? I don't know what you're talking about sir. I have never said this or that. I've Yeah. Uh Arind Roy once again good evening. Thank you. John says uh you once said that Indians are first of all let me remind you all uh since I've taken this well I'll take this but please remember I have put this in the title of the video I have put it is the pinned comment. I am going to take questions about geopolitics today. May I please remind you all you you all as as as Shri Donald Trump G would say thank you for your attention to this matter. I will only take questions about geopolitics since I clicked on this and I took this. So I'll take this but going forward I'll only take questions about geopolitics. So Indians are on a starvation diet. I said that yes what was our D diet like before the invasion began. Uh read the book called Manasa. I have done this at least two three times on previous live chats. Uh since you have asked me, I will I will quickly show you what the book looks like and you can see for yourself what our diet was like about 800 900 years ago. And uh yeah, this is great uh for other YouTubers who may be watching. They can make a video about this for sure. I have no issue with that. So take a look at this. This is the manas lassa. Is this the Sanskrit version or the English version? Let's quickly see. uh it will take a second to load and let's let's smallify it a little bit and this is the book now I'll not go through it and look for the portions where it has uh uh references to diet uh this is the Sanskrit version clearly okay and there's there's an English version also my point is if you read this book you will come to know what the Indian diet was like before the starvation period which was imposed upon us by the uh British and European occupiers who starved our ancestors to death. I mean, hundreds of millions of us died, right? Okay. Uh, Anka G has gifted 10 memberships. Thank you so much, ma'am. That's so kind of you. I really appreciate that. Thank you so much. God bless you, ma'am. Okay. Godliness says, "Do you believe Isra has achieved all its goals or at least the core objective of destroying Iranian proxies? Trump is pushing for a ceasefire in Gaza, but real daddy Netanyahu is still on the hunt. So when it comes to Iran, this history between the two nations, uh there's been cooperation, there's been an adversarial relationship and the overall the relationship has been marked by this adversarial nature. So during the time of the Sha who was a US puppet, uh the two nations Iran and Israel had excellent relations. Then you had the uh uh Islamic revolution that happened I think in 1979 and u the Islamic government of Iran u under uh uh ayati uh it it denounced Israel it says it said that Israel has no right to exist. It called Iran, it called Israel the small small Satan shaitan. The great shaitan was wasan burg obviously is the US from their perspective right and uh and they said that Israel has no right to exist and it needs to be wiped off the map. That's the kind of attitude the the Islamic government of Iran has had ever since during the Iran Iraq war the two nations cooperated. Israel provided supplies, weapons and arms and and ammunition to Iran. Okay. Well, that's also there and you can you can see my previous videos to understand why it was the case. Uh then after the fall uh of Saddam after the end of the Iran Iraq war and eventually Saddam Hussein was was ousted by the Americans and so on. So the the relationship went back to being an adversarial relationship. Uh so that's the deal. Now Iran has nuclear ambitions. They have a nuclear program. uh they may have certain amount of file material that could be very quickly enriched to uh weapons grade levels 90% plus purity right from from yellow kish stuff to actual uranium metal and with that in mind you have to understand what Israel's objectives are when it comes to Iran they want to permanently dnuclearize Iran that's number one that's the most urgent thing that they want to achieve that's the most urgent goal from Israel's perspective, the denuclearization of Iran. That's number one. Number two, ideally regime change in Thran and the Sha returns or the son of the Sha returns and becomes a new US and Israeli puppet. That way Iran becomes gets completely defanged, becomes once again a vasal of the Americans and by extension that of Israel, right? Uh and then once if that happens, then the proxies don't even matter anymore. the proxies become the masterless proxies, allies, the Houthis, the the Shia militias in Iraq, Hezbollah, Hamas, whatever you want to Yeah. All those all those assets that Iran has. So the way I see it, Netanyahu had two objectives. One was denuclearization of Iran. Second, even bigger regime change. And he has achieved neither of the objectives. The Americans under Mr. Trump. They did deploy B2 bombers over Iran. They did uh uh hit Iranian nuclear sites like Ferdo, Natans, Isvahan, etc. with bunker busting bombs. And Trump has claimed that they have obliterated Iran's nuclear program. But Pentagon assessments, multiple intelligence assessments from the US that have come out, they say that it's not really caused any major damage. At most, Iran's nuclear program has been delayed by 3 to 6 months. There's no radiation that's come out which means that none of the uranium was hit and Trump had been foreshadowing his strikes on Iran for at least 2 weeks before he actually did that. So Iran had ample time to take out their their equipment and file material from those nuclear sites and you have satellite imagery that corroborates this that this actually happened. They they had big long convoys of trucks taking stuff out, right? So with that understood, what's what's what's Israel achieved? They have achieved neither of their big goals, denuclearization or regime change. Neither of those things. They seem to have suppressed the air defenses in Iran and uh they achieved air dominance, air superiority over Iranian airspace, which is a big achievement. But yet they have not achieved the core object objectives. Iran still has probably a huge stockpile of drones and various kinds of missiles, ballistic as well as cruise missiles. Their nuclear program is more or less fine. A delay of 6 months is no big deal. Some of their uh top leadership has been uh eliminated, assassinated, IRGC commanders, nuclear scientists and all, but Iran has a big population. They'll find a way to replace that. So overall, Israel hasn't achieved anything unfortunately from their perspective. Okay. uh and Netanyahu faces personal troubles. There is there are like two corruption cases against him and in order to to sidestep those he would have had he would have wanted to achieve a huge victory the kind of victory no other Israeli leader has had in the past and that's not happened unfortunately. So Trump has ended up not helping Netanyahu. He has achieved what he says is peace. Let's see how long it lasts. I I believe it will last for a while this peace. Um and Gaza, well that's a whole different story. Trump wants peace in Gaza as well and Netanyahu doesn't want he wants Gaza to go on. So yeah, that's the situation. All right, I hope that explains it. Rashi Guden says, "Do you think RAW is better than Mossad or CIA?" Well, I am not a person who has any connections in RAW. I don't have any connections in Mossad. I don't have any connections in the CIA. With that said, if you well, how can I how can I make an assessment setting from looking from the outside? These are very secretive agencies, right? Um, so for for us civilians, there's no way to make a proper informed uh assessment or or evaluation of the capabilities and assign scores to each of them and then see which score is the biggest. I I don't know. The MOSAD obviously has it its reputation precedes it. uh probably one of the best if not the best uh intelligence agency in the world. Um CI also has a long long long track record of doing well fantastic things from their perspective right and Ro also well Ro is also row so I I can't say really can't really say uh but from the long if you if you look at the whole track record this past since 1950 essentially and I would say Mosad and CI would be neck to neck raw well we don't really know about their successes or failures or whatever too much because it's all kept under wrap I can't really make an assessment. Okay. A Chint Anand says, "Bya, you have implied that treaties are meant to be broken." Well, I haven't implied that treaties are meant to be broken. I have said that if a treaty exists that is detrimental to my interests, there is no reason for me to continue uh with the treaty and I've given multiple examples of that. Right? For example, the uh China the the treaty the U the Chinese had with the UK about Hong Kong, one nation, two systems. They walked away from it unilaterally. They said it's it's been enough time and we no longer recognize this treaty. They can walk away from it unilaterally because it's it doesn't serve their national interests. The Americans walked away from the JCPOA, the joint comprehensive plan of action, the Iran nuclear deal. Trump walked away from that unilaterally, right? Once again, it it they can do it. Uh so the point is if a treaty is detrimental to our national interest then we have there is we are under no obligation to continue to abide by the treaty with that understood. So treaties aren't meant to be broken but sometimes treaties are imposed upon you by force. Such treaties when you are strong enough you should walk away from them. Or let's say you have a leader who did not understand what your national interest was and then that leader your leader 70 years ago or whatever signed a treaty. Well, today you understand that it is it was detrimental to your national interest. You can walk away from it. Okay, that's a deal. You don't have to break every treaty. Most treaties that you enter into, you enter into those treaties willingly. You enter into those treaties after considering all the pros and cons and you uh negotiate it properly such that it is ideally mutually beneficial to both parties or multiple parties. That's how you typically do it. But sometimes you have treaties that are bad. One example is the Indust treaty. Terrible treaty. Absolutely horrendously one-sided treaty. Probably the most unequal treaty in the history of humankind. And we have finally walked away from it. And I would like to thank Prime Minister Modi for taking this uh this this step overdue, long overdue. and very very welcome step. Thank you so much. With that said, uh Achinia says, "Does that mean that we can also back off from India recognizing Tibet as part of China?" Absolutely. And what's happened a couple of days ago, uh his holiness Dalai Lama stating that the reincarnation, his reincarnation will happen as per established procedure, as per tradition without any external interference by China. Well, that's that essentially says that you know China doesn't control the central issue when it comes to Tibet which is the reincarnation if of his holiness the highest authority in in present day Buddhism. So so that itself signals to the entire world that China doesn't have complete control over Tibet which means Tibet is a disputed territory. So we're going to ramp it up slowly as as and when required. But yes, we can certainly back off from recognizing Tibet as part of China. And we can do it step by step slowly sometimes sometimes implicitly like what we have done here like what his holiness has helped us do. And yes uh and the government may take its time. It may act diplomatically. But for us we are under no such diplomatic obligations. So let us put it out in the public domain that Tibet is a disputed territory and China illegitimately occupies Tibet. The Chinese occupation of Tibet is illegal, illegitimate, brutal and it needs to end, right? Um is this a geopolitics question? Uh Chpd kind of gives tries to placebo its user. It gives biased answers also in all forms of global simulations. It never projects the US as a loser. Well, this is kind of a geopolitical question because this is an extension of geopolitics. You know, technology and uh propaganda is an extension of geopolitics. So that's how it goes. If I create a large language model, an AI system that I offer to the world, if I create it, okay, and I control it entirely, my minions, my employees control all the aspects and parameters of this uh uh large language model that I'm offering to the world as a service, then obviously I will always portray India as the winner. I am biased, my dear friends. In in case you're not aware, I am a super biased person. I'm always biased towards India. Okay. So if I create a large language model then this large language model of mine will always give you answers that are biased in favor of India. No matter what you do, no matter how you try to question it, interro interrogate it, try to fool it, mislead it, it will always give you answers that will be favorable to that will portray India in a favorable light. Okay? And that's how it goes. The Chinese what what is it called? Deepse seek R1 R2. What R2 is an out I suppose R1 I think is the one. Uh it's available for download. So if you have a powerful enough laptop and you download it locally then you can make it do whatever you want. I mean it'll it'll not be biased. It won't have those constraints. But the one that's online I suppose it will be biased in favor of China. So that's how it goes. We should not be surprised about it. We should not be surprised. So this is a war of narratives. It's it's a propaganda war and if you use these services you should be aware that there will be inherent biases. There won't be blatant biases. There will be very subtle biases and often times mo most people won't be won't even be aware of the existence of these biases. And you know most what most people do on Twitter, hey Grock, is this true? And whatever Grock says it's it's the gospel truth as as if it was written in the Bible or something, right? Gospel truth. And and people these days if they if if they want to fact check something they will open up their phone and they'll say hey Chhat GPD what about what's the answer to this and whatever Chip says that's the truth that's it GPDI now there's no question about what the truth is so that's how people's minds are um and that's why it's so easy to fool them and that's why chd and all these LLMs they are very powerful uh tools in the propaganda toolkit of the major powers all Right. Please be aware of this my dear friends. GPO African Skipio. Okay. As a follow-up to the Dalai Lama question, how do you see this realistically play out visav Tibet? Visav visav Tibet. Will it work as we intend? what is the intention of making uh first of all we to ask ourselves what's the intention of uh of of the of his holiness making this uh statement now the assertion that his reincarnation will proceed as per tradition the the objective of that is to once again tell the world that Tibet is a disputed territory Tibet is is China's hold on Tibet is illegitimate and so on that's that's what we intended by doing this now it will play out in a variety of different ways and if you want to play out if you want to understand how it could play out then watch my u uh the the latest episode of geo strategy that came out day before yesterday the Tibet section the Dalai Lama section in which I have gone into great detail and I've put out like five different uh forecasts with multiple scenarios as to how this will play out uh will it work as we intend it it it is working the way we intended see what's happened actually is that the Chinese are openly blatantly out in the public supporting Pakistan. When Operation Synindur was happening, they were giving real-time information and data to Pakistan to counter us. Uh and that's very concerning because the Chinese seem to have uh spy satellites in position above our our you know above outside of Earth, outside of the atmosphere and keeping an eye on us. That's something we're going to have to take very seriously and we're going to have to counter that with satellites of our own. We're going to have to bolster and augment our satellite network. But the point is the Chinese have very have made it very clear to us that they are our enemies and they no longer have any intention of of uh uh seeking friendship with us like they were claiming last year. So now that they have made it absolutely 100% clear to us. So that's why we have taken this step. Okay. It's in response to Chinese provocations and it's going to work the way we intended. It's it's going to work the Chinese the way the Chinese wanted it to work. The Chinese asked for it. So we have given it to them and now we're going to be more assertive about this. So what's the worst case scenario? China says you are our enemies. Well, you are China is anyway behaving as our enemy. Um so we are essentially telling the world that we agree that China is not going to be our friend. We now regard China as an adversarial nation. their their claims of friendship were all false and we're going to do everything in our power to ensure that China doesn't get the upper hand over us. So with these uh symbolic statements these these indicative statements like like what happened which which raises the Tibet issue and makes Tibet again a gray area a disputed area. With that, we also have to take real action of bolstering our armed forces of of ramping up our up our missile production, our border uh infrastructure uh along the LACE, the the India Tibet border, uh augmenting uh all our weaponry, air defense systems, uh naval naval systems, all of that. We need to do all that cyber security. So all of this has to happen at the same time. our satellite satellite network. We need to put up more satellites in space that can keep an eye on occupied Tibet and other Chinese activities, Pakistani activities. We need to augment the Navic system so much more. So as long as we do these things, it's going to have the effect that we want, which is to increase u our security visav China. So yeah, it's it's going to be a work in progress over the next decade essentially. Um, Wooden Armor says, "Do you believe EU the quality of the of life in the European Union will go down given that it's mostly a service-based economy and AI will disrupt it?" A lot of things will disrupt uh the quality of life in the EU. The first thing that will disrupt the quality of life in the EU is the large scale un unraveled unmititigated um illegal immigration that's happening that's that's flowing into the EU. That's going to destroy their quality of life. They will no longer have space safe spaces where they can sit and have siestas in public and uh have those have you know those bistos and cafes and sip sip coffee all day. Whatever they do, that's not going to happen. Uh secondly, because each nation in in NATO is now going to have to ramp up its uh uh you know it its uh defense budget from two less than 2% of GDP to 5% of GDP that's going to cut down on the public welfare welfare schemes and um all all of that you know u the welfare state system that all the EU nations have. So that's going to bring the quality of life down. Um and of course AI is going to have its own impact on on this. So overall the next 10 years the quality of life is going to come down significantly in the EU region which is very unfortunate but it is what it is. These are the cycles of history and we are witnessing them in real time. 10 years from now it's going to be a different kind of Europe definitely. Uh Napoleon Singh Shikhawad says how Israel allowed Nazi to be Mossad agents. I am not aware of this person. Uh let me quickly Google the person. I'm not aware of who this person is. Otto Scorzini. Who was Otto Scorzini? Otto Scorzini. Austrianborn German SS agent SSand fur in the waffin SS. Uh oh yeah this this guy Egypt etc. Well well if you're useful you're useful. You see that's how it goes. If a person is useful and as as long as the person is willing to offer their services, you don't trust them. But do you use them works? Why not? You have got to be pragmatic in life. You can't be idealistic especially when it comes to national security when it comes to uh counter intelligence and all of that. You can even use the enemy's agents. If the enemy's agent is willing to offer you services for a price, you use the services. You don't trust the person. You verify constantly what they are doing. You spy on them, but you use their services and that's how it goes. Lesson to be learned. Uh anonymous scientist says Prime Minister Modi was warmly received with a bare hug by uh Mr. Mle in Argentina 10 minutes ago. Well, okay, breaking news. How important is Argentina to India? Argentina is an important uh nation in Latin America. pretty large nation. The second largest nation in Latin America. Let's take a look at it. Right. Let's go to the map. We haven't opened the map today thus far. Yeah, it's been Yeah. Okay. So, let's go westwards. We cross the Atlantic. We go southwards. And here we have Argentina. Pretty nice cold place actually. It's a pretty big country. The second largest nation in South America. Lots of resources, lots of mineral and natural resources. Pretty big country. uh they have a territorial dispute with the UK, the Malvvenas islands that the UK calls the Faulland Islands and the UK occupies this Argentina claims this and so on. It's it's a pretty important country. Um it's a large country with uh yeah so I I say it's a pretty important country and uh it's one of the nations that's part of the global south. India should in my opinion be uh the leader of the global south. China doesn't want to play the role. China wants to play imperial superpower games. Let them try and play those games. Okay, let them try. Let them try and do do all that. India should build consensus among the global south. India should reach out to every member of the global south. Prime Minister Modi was on a trip to multiple nations. Is on a trip to multiple nations. He was in Ghana recently in in the Caribbean region. Uh Trinidad if I'm not mistaken. Now he's in Argentina. He's on this this trip to reach out to as many uh important nations as possible and Argentina itself as as a as the second largest nation in Latin America. It's pretty important quite important and we should have great relations with Argentina and Brazil and everybody else. So I think it's a great step. Abishekav says what's Russia's justification for the Crimea invasion? Well, Crimea was always part of Russia. That's the justification. That's the justification. It's always been part of a shared history. So that's it. That's your answer, sir. Um Geo Warrior says, "How should our foreign service be restructured to serve our geopolitical interests better?" Not saying it's bad now, but just wanted your opinion. See the first thing I we can see is that we have approximately 16 to700 diplomats total 1,600 to 1,700. Uh is that enough to take on the world to to engage with the world? Singapore has more diplomats than India. The US has more than 10,000 diplomats, maybe around 20,000 perhaps. Russia has more than 10,000 diplomats. You want to be able to engage with every single nation in the world. You need to have multiple people engaging with each nation. We need to have specialists that are that specialize in the history and culture and politics of each nation. Even a small nation like Sioto may principe principe or Botswana or whatever elsetoonga. We need to have specialists in each nation. People who speak the local language. People who can speak the tool language, the language that they speak in Ghana, for example, the language they speak in Argentina, which is the Spanish of Argentina, whatever. We need to have people who understand the local politics, the local history. You need to have specialists. We need to have specialists in each nation, military specialists, uh agricultural specialists, uh geoengineering specialists who are also diplomats. You need to have this sort of specialization within the IFS and you need to have a much more expanded IFS. We a nation of India's scale and magnitude needs at least 10,000 diplomats. Of course, we have these different ministries in India and the various uh officers within each ministry, they also serve as diplomats during negotiations and whatever. But you need specialists within the IFS. So my opinion is very clear. We need to have a much more expanded IFS. They should allow lateral entry. They should have consultants, people who are not really within the IFS but will consult for the IFS as and when required can be deployed if required and so on. It needs to become a much larger much more capable much broader organization with lots of specialists as well as lots of generalists. That's what you need. That's what needs to happen and well high time for that to happen. Okay. Literally, Officer K says, "Global sentiment towards Israel, especially among Gen Z millennials, is at an all-time low, especially in key nations like the US. When do you think, if ever, will this reflect in policy towards Israel? When it comes to Okay, see, let's talk about the US because you have mentioned the US. Uh first of all when it comes to India I'm not sure if the sentiment in India towards Israel is is at an all-time low. I don't think so. There will be some sections of Indian society whatever percentage you would have put there who will never support Israel who will always be virulently opposed to Israel but overall most Indians are have a pretty positive uh view of Isra. So let's not discuss India let's discuss the US. in the US. I haven't seen polling figures or data or statistics, but it does look like there's a downward uh trend in u the way Israel is regarded. That's what it looks like. Uh okay, in the absence of data, I cannot say for sure, but it's it's it's possible. Um the question then is when will this reflect in policy, US policy towards Israel? Not anytime soon. So you see this is the deal. This is the deal my friends. In a democracy, public sentiment should drive national policy. That's what a democracy is supposed to be. National policy should reflect the will of the people. Correct? Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Friends. Yes. My dear viewers, public policy in a democracy should reflect the will of the people. Now in the US it's let's assume that uh 51% of people uh see don't have a very good opinion of Israel maybe 60% let's say whatever number let's put out a hypothetical number let's say 60% of of Americans don't see Israel very positively so then in that case should US policy not be kind of reflective of that sentiment towards Israel but that's never going to Okay. So then the question arises, is the US really a democracy? That's how it goes. You see, public sentiment doesn't really matter in the US. The politicians will do what politicians do. Uh so when it comes to the US, it looks like this will never reflect in American policy towards Israel. US policy will always put Israel first. Mr. Trump has said, "Israel is our number one ally. We have to do whatever it takes to support Israel." Not those words, but I'm paraphrasing. Okay? You get, please understand what I mean. Don't quote me on that. The stand of Mr. Trump is that Israel is our prime ally and we have to do whatever it takes to support Israel. We don't have to necessarily support the prime minister, the current prime minister of Israel. We don't support individual politicians, but we support the nation and we'll stand by the nation. will do whatever it takes to to uh ensure that the nations Israel as a nation its interests are always taken care of. That's always been the US policy for the longest time since uh well since the the Johnson era I would say after JFK Johnson was the prime was the president of the US after JFK's assassination and so the US policy has been extremely pro-Israel almost like Israel first ever since uh the Johnson era so even if there is significant sentiment against Israel in the US among the gen Z among the millennials US official policy will always favor Israel that's how I see it what's the reasons for that well that's a long diff that's a whole different story okayish K says as you mentioned the US or any other powerful nation tends to make other nations its vasal how did India manage to avoid become one in Congress rule okay which Congress rule are you referring to there have been so many Congress rules 20th century Congress rule India was well you could say a Soviet vasal kind of during the cold during the first cold war the 20th century cold war which ended let's say around 1999 thereabouts that during that period India was more more or less part of the Soviet uh it was you could perhaps you could say India was kind of a Soviet vasal right uh and and Soviet vasalhood was very different from American Vasalhood. Uh so we were okay. It was fine for us. It did compromise us to a certain small extent but not the way you get compromised under American Vasalhood. Then after the dissolution of the USSR um there was a uniolar moment for a few years. The Americans were the only superpower in the world. The only great power major power superpower in the world. There was no challenger on the horizon. And India was a was an insignificant nation for the longest time until the mid2010s late 2010s India was insignificant. Yeah, India was sure was a big growing market and economy and all that but geopolitically from a hard power perspective India was insignificant. We had nuclear weapons but we did not ever you know uh use that to our advantage um and so on. So the US did not really care about making India their vasal during that period of time. Uh India did become did get deeply infiltrated by the Americans. Uh 1991 onwards. Okay. I assure you of that even today India is deeply deeply penetrated and infiltrated by by the US at various levels. Even today it is the case. Let me just say that. Uh but we have we never became a vasal. Uh during the tenure of Mr. Man Dr. Mon Singh 10 years um we did sign this this one 123 deal agreement nuclear agreement with the US but it never really fortified into anything uh anything substantial any any action on the ground and uh Mr. Dr. Man Singh always had this uh you know the approach that India doesn't have any big ambitions. We don't aspire to be a great power. We'll just exist kind of that sort of thing and uh that is the way things went. So India kind of stayed below everybody's everybody's horizon. Nobody cared. It's only when Mr. Modi came to power and things started changing pretty rapidly that the world took note of India. Slowly start started taking note of India. And it's now that India is now you know people are worried about India in India growing and becoming possibly the next China if we get our things right. So that that is how things went. Puruam Pradhan says relationship between sports and geopolitics big fan thank you so much. Sports and geopolitics look there's no actual relationship between sports and geopolitics. Sports is something that can build a national narrative. If you are great in sports people regard you with more respect. Okay people admire you more. I mean Jamaica is a tiny little nation but we admire Jamaica because of their sprinting team because of Usuzain Bolt right there's a little there's a significant amount of admiration and if you are a reasonably okay nation from a hard power perspective okay middle ranking nation with from a hard power perspective but you produce great athletes and you win lots of golds then you are then it's it's it's great for propaganda then people tend to see you as more powerful than you actually are and sports of course has this unifying factor Nothing unifies a nation like success, right? You may have all kinds of disputes within the nation. But the moment there is a Olympic gold or a world cup win, everybody forgets their differences and comes together. And a nation that continuously keeps winning, it has more unity within. And that's great geopolitically. So right. So Shabban Dub says did the US support Israel because of the role of Jewish scientists in developing the atom bomb and has continued technology and intelligence cooperation made Israel one of America's most trusted allies over time. The question is why did the US why does the US support Israel? Look in geopolitics nobody remembers favors. Okay? No one remembers favors. Oh, you did something great for me 50 years ago, so that's why I'll be favorably inclined towards you. That doesn't work in geopolitics. No one cares. The only thing that matters in geopolitics is your utility to me today. You may have done great things for me 50 years ago, but in geopolitics that such sentimentality doesn't work. There is no place for sentiment in geopolitics. The only parameters that are that are considered in geopolitical calculations is utility. America looks at Pakistan. Ah useful. We can we can use Pakistan to bleed India for 30 years using Pakistani terrorism as our proxy. That's that's how it is useful. In the past Pakistan backstabbed us multiple times but who we don't care. Pakistan is still useful. That's how it works. So Jewish scientists of course there were some Jewish scientists who developed the atomic who were who had a role in developing the atom bomb but that those were American scientists right I mean you have many Indian scientists in America so by the same logic shouldn't there have shouldn't the US support India very much but it's not the case right think about it there are many Chinese origin scientists in the US who have developed developed various things right I One of the scientists who developed stealth technology for the Americans was Indian Indian origin guy. They jailed him for espionage. Do you know that? So it doesn't work like that. This is not the reason why the US keeps supporting Israel and all that. There are there are other reasons for that. All right? That's that's all I'll tell you. Please think logically. Please look at counter examples. When you want to understand something and you see some data that supports what you believe, please always ask yourself, do we have counter examples that don't support what I believe or what I want to believe? That's how you think critically. You look at counter examples. You look at things from a 360°ree perspective. You look at historical precedents. That's how you examine things. That's how you think critically. Just because there are like some examples that support what I believe deep inside doesn't mean that you should just jump to the conclusion. Always look at other examples then you will see that it doesn't really work that way. Okay. Okay. Adita says any views on COR development of electric jet engine could we produce civil aircraft in the future and supporting amca which is with its engine. What is senor? I'm not aware of this. Looks like it's more breaking news. Let's let's let's Google it and find out what is Siri. Siri um what electric jet engine? What is this? Siri tests electric jet engine for India. Let's see what this is. Open up, bro. Uh Senor tests electric jet engine in India. It has successfully tested what it claims is the world's first all electric jet engine in Pune etc. Let's see what the technology is. Norwegian aerospace company with Indian subsidiary reported that its engine prototype exceeded the design intent of 40,000 RPM and 10 kgf thrust as measured by a load cell and so on so forth ground test. But what's the technology? It's developing a tip-driven propulsion system using distributed edge motors, mounted motors, southern hub mounted engine built for thrust from 1 kilon to 90 plus kon. The design aims to support ranges exceeding 4,000 km. UAV engine commercialization, etc. Senior engine architecture removes the need for combustion chambers and high-cost alloys. Uh, power source agnostic engine can work with both battery and hydrogen electric energy sources. I'm still not clear about what the what what the mechanism is. Let's see this idw electric all electric jet engine. Son knows etc etc etc. Uh traditional jets relies on fossil fuels but seror's all electric design leverages advanced battery technology electric propulsion to eliminate emissions entirely. So our view okay I'll have to look into this in detail I'll not go do the do the research right now looks intriguing so they don't what's this what what drives what moti what is the motivating factor for the the RPM what's the power source is the question is it batteries that would be shocking and I'll be very pleased with that uh is it hydrogen fuel even that would be fine I'm not sure all electric means it looks like it's it's driven It's its power source is just a battery pack. That would be great. I've not heard of such technology before. So, I'll look into this. This is the first time I'm hearing about it. Very interesting piece of news. And I shall uh look into this in more detail. If if this works out and if it has a output of 90 kontons for example, depending on the size of the engine, well, I think one or two engines on a on a jet aircraft will be tremendous. Of course, you know, can you super cruise with that? Does it can you can you cross the speed of sound? All all of these questions are there, but looks very promising to me. Looks promising for sure. Uh really now says, "Do you know if it's true Chinese harvest the organs of fallong fallong people even though they're natives? They even sell human meat. Using lefto is horrific." I don't know. There's all kinds of rumors that come out of China. There's this persistent rumor that China, you know, the Chinese have this uh very harsh death penalty system. They execute like well over 10,000 people every year. And I've always been hearing about this for the longest time, 20 years plus, that the Chinese when they execute somebody, they harvest the organs. And I've heard that there is a lot of oppression that the the Chinese have oppressed the the Falong people for whatever reason. I'm not sure what the reason is. Maybe it's a religious cult or whatever according to China. Uh but yeah, I've heard about this. I don't know if it's true. I've heard the rumors, the very persistent rumors, but I do not know if this is true. Can't unless you have sources on the ground, you can't tell. So, I don't know. Uh Adit Kumar says, "What are your thoughts on the Gatak UCAV? Can it act as an unmanned bomber for the IIAF? Should we rent Russian bombers?" Alternatively, um, the Gatak UCAV, it was called the DRDO Aura earlier. Now it's called the Gatak. It reminds me of the Russian Oknik. The Okothnik, is it a bomber or is it is it a fighter interceptor? Uh, let's let's first take a look at the Okothnik. Oknik. Uh, is it a I think let's see. The Oknik is a Russian stealth heavy unmanned combat aerial vehicle. This is also a UCAV unmanned combat aerial vehicle and uh yeah so I think it's it would be under serial production now. Um yeah so that's the deal with Oknik. how the di the gatak the gataka this is still under production under under development obviously um not sure oh as always please don't rely on Wikipedia too much because it is it is likely to have uh distortions and misrepresentations and so on but yeah so the question is can it okay so this is an this is an unmanned a combat aerial vehicle which means means that it will be used for combat. It will be stealthy, hard to detect and that that gives it advantages. So you can bring it into close proximity with whoever you want to combat with and take those guys down. So let's say you have a Pakistani fighter jet or or or a Chinese fighter jet that you want to engage and you send the gatak which is stealthy so they can't detect it on radar until it's too late and you come as close as possible and then you fire maybe Astra missiles or whatever and at a reasonably close distance there's no way you can evade the Astra missile. So it's it's uh an unmanned combat aerial vehicle. It's for combat, but you can use the Gatak design and make it much more massive with obviously you need testing and all that for that. But then you can then use that as an unmanned bomber possibly or maybe even convert that into a man bomber like the B2 or something. Uh so yeah, the possibilities are endless once you get this right. Uh should we rent Russian bombers? We can buy Russian bombers. Why why not still the the strategic bombers? I think makes sense to have a few of those. Uh that's for the government to decide, but I think it it does make sense to have a few uh you know those white swan bombers or something a few of those in our um our arsenal for sure. Nle says why did Yugoslavia disintegrate into six countries? What was the reason behind the US hatred for them? Well, you I've kind of answered your question. The US was behind the disintegration of Yugoslavia. See, Yugoslavia was part of uh the Soviet block, Eastern Europe, right? Um the Balkan nations were all part of Yugoslavia. Let's let's go to the map. Let's quickly take a look at uh at the region. So, which nations were part of Yugoslavia? Today, you have a bunch of nations in the Balkan region, right? um Bosnia, Hatsuggavina, Serbia, Kosovo, Montenegro, um Slovenia, Croatia, all of these used to be part even even I think North Macedonia if I'm not mistaken. All of these used to be part of this large nation called Yugoslavia. And after the dissolution of the USSR, Yugoslavia was broken up. And this was done by the Americans. So there was a civil war kind of thing. Old ethnic hatreds came out. During the communist period, no such thing was allowed. But when um and and see Yugoslavia always existed under the protection of the USSR. The USSR was a superpower. It could protect its allies and they remained protected. But once the USSR disintegrated, the Americans said that you know what, we're going to destroy everything the USSR created. So they went ahead and and you could say it sparked the conflict or encouraged the conflict or whatever but that ended up disintegrating Yugoslavia. What was the reason for the US hatred for them? Well, because they used to be part of the Soviet block and the Americans wanted to destroy everything the Soviets had created because they could. It was a uniolar moment. They could and that's why they did that. Terrible time. 1990s. Terrible times. Terrible civil war. Horrific. Absolutely horrific. Okay. Shashank says any sign in any signs of boost in bilaterals between India and Australia. Well, I haven't seen any recent developments. We have this trade deal negotiations going on. We've already signed a trade deal and initial trade deal and there's going to be another more more advanced trade deal that's going to happen sometime maybe by the end of this year. And uh I think India Australia relations are great. Lots of uh you know multi-dommain multi-dimensional cooperation in a variety of ways uh trade lot of trade. We obviously are part of the quad and so on but recent events I haven't seen much but yeah overall the the relationship is on a very is on a very good track is all I can say. Okay Moit but well thank you so much sir. I really appreciate that. Thank you. Wooden Armor PK says, "How relevant are fighter jets in modern warfare and what can India do to develop a single crystal blade jet engine program like the French?" Fighter jets are still very relevant, still relevant as as far as we know. Um, see today we have uh lots of other systems that have entered the battle space. For example, drones, as we know, uh drones of various kinds, anti-personnel drones, anti-vehicle drones, drones that can take out tanks very easily if you know where to hit the tank, right? Um and also uh kabi kaza drones or suicide drones, those are also very um dangerous, very uh relevant in today's battle space uh scenarios. We saw a lot of that during the 3-day operation Synindur 3-day war between India and Pakistan in which we hammered Pakistani terrorist sites and military infra infrastructure with uh loitering drones, harop drones um and also missiles of various kinds. So where do fighter jets come into the picture is the question. Well, ideally you want to disable you want to suppress the enemy air defenses. SE A suppression of enemy air defenses. You want to achieve that first, which means you first take out their radars. Then you take out their their anti-aircraft batteries, which are anti-aircraft uh missile systems and guns and all that. Once you take all of that out, that's when you can send your aircraft. And then you may have even before that you you want to destroy their air bases, which means you should uh take out the runways at least make the runways inoperative for a few hours. you know crater the runways by hitting the runways with very powerful missiles. Abramos hit on a Pakistani runway will gouge a gigantic crater then no Pakistani aircraft can take off from there for a few hours minimum maybe for a few weeks depends and then once the airspace is is sanitized and the air defenses are suppressed properly that's when uh fighter planes become relevant. Ideally that's how we want to use them. Sometimes you have to do dog fighting which is a 20th century thing in my opinion but sometimes we still do that in which case you need good fighter planes you know agile maneuverable ideally four generation plus four plus generation with long um with very powerful air-to-air missiles like the Meteor or the augmented Astra even the regular Astra and so on even various Russian airto-air missiles are very effective all of that so fighter jets are still relevant still relevant As of now, what can India do to develop a single single crystal blade jet engine program? Keep on iteratively or improving what you're doing. Alternatively, buy borrow steel. Whatever it takes, get it done. Buy it from the French or the Russians. Buy, beg, borrow, steal, whatever it takes. National interest is paramount. Get it done. So, we have the caviri system that is ongoing. But I think that that program has been stopped for now which means something may be a foot. I don't know what would be a foot but we'll see about that. Um the rational reporter says why has India not being able to control the west like Israel despite having a highly successful and significantly larger diaspora? Is it religion? Well yeah we are polytheists. Polytheists are hated by the west. The west is a monotheistic culture. the monotheism has been imposed upon them by force by the way but they no longer remember all of that they are monotheists at heart and uh the original monotheistic religion obviously was Judaism right um it's the original Abrahamic religion and the other two religions came they appeared later so Judaism Judaism Judaism whatever it is is the original Abrahamic religion and uh the US is a Christian country whatever you say whatever claims it's a Christian nation. Okay. The US and Christians are first class citizens. Polytheists are not exactly first class citizens in the US. Okay. Uh so we and the other thing is that we have a very large diaspora. Sure. Very successful, very rich etc. But we are not unified. We are not united. Indians are like cats. You can't herd cats together. Have you ever seen a shepherd hering cats? Cats are incapable of being herded. They are too individualistic. They will go in their own direction. You'll never see seven cats together. I once saw seven cats together as a child, but that's a whole different story. So, uh, so that's how Indians are. Indians can't unite. Indians love arguing with each other. Indians, we have too many differences despite being part of the same civilization. Or you speak a different language. or you eat onions. Oh, you eat garlic. Oh, you eat chicken. You you eat mutton. This is all within the dharmic umbrella. By the way, we we have too many differences, too many small differences. And we consider those differences to be bigger than whatever unites us. And that's why Indians despite being so successful, so rich, uh etc. in the US, they simply aren't united. They exist in these little communities, different communities. The Telugu speaking people will be here. The the Punjabi speaking people will be here. The Tamil speaking people will be here. The Marwari speaking people here. Gujarati people here. Bengali people here. All different all different uh they all different exist in different multiverses, different universes. They will get together once in a while for whatever but very very seldom. And that's why Indians simply don't unite and Indians don't seem to be politically active too much. There are a a few examples. Vak is an example obviously. Uh he as you see as you can see he's not doing too well. Of course he may still possibly perhaps longshot may become the govern governor of Ohio. We'll see about that. Um other Indians if they want to be politically relevant they have to convert. Nimrata core became Nikki Haley converted to Christianity. Push Jindal became Bobby Jindal converted to Christianity. Right? So that's the deal. So that's the deal. That's the story. Now, uh, caution world says, why is there no independence movement in Japan or Germany? People must know the truth about US occupation due to internet even if it's not taught. Well, I'll tell you what. In in Japan, from the time you are 3 years old or whatever, you go to school, you are taught that Japan is a pacifistic country. We believe in pacifism. We believe in nonviolence. Violence is evil. Weapons are evil. In the past, we were very bad people. Our ancestors were very evil people and they deserved everything they got. And Japan must never ever ever ever take up arms. Japan must forever remain arms free. Armies are bad. And the good Americans, they are here to ensure that Japan never becomes bad again. Japan was very naughty in the past. This is ingrained into you from the time you were three years old and you grow up repeating these mantras and by the time you're 18, 20, you believe it with with the fullest extent of your heart. What what what happens then? You you're done. You simply what independence moment will happen? Yeah, you may have a few Yukio Mishimas who come up and try to exhort the armed forces to to take up arms, but they're going to laugh you off and then you end up doing sepoku like Yukio Mishima. Germany also same story. 20,000 years 2000 2,000th anniversary of Armenius routing the Romans. Nobody celebrated in Germany. You're not taught about these things, right? Germany also same story as Japan. That's why education is the the core of everything. That's why education is so important in India as well. May I remind you, I haven't mentioned it yet in this episode. Well, here you have it. Okay. FAL Shake says reports say that food supplies sent to Gaza after the so-called ceasefire are being drugged. Videos have surfaced allegedly uh showing people in Israel paying to watch the bombing of Gaza yacht. My thoughts? Um, uh, well, I haven't seen I'm not keeping an eye on what's happening in Gaza, first of all, but yeah, what's happening in Gaza is obviously a humanitarian catastrophe. No question about it. No question about it. Uh, that's which is why ideally ideally I would want the UN to take over the UN, right? The UN is supposedly a neutral organization. It's the organization that's in charge of world peace. The UN should take over in Gaza. They should be in charge of everything. Uh if if they are, I don't think they are. If they are, then they should have a proper presence there. A UN peacekeeping force should be there in Gaza. And then everything should happen through the UN. And the UN should check everything. If food supplies are tainted, contaminated, drugged, whatever, then those should be checked, verified because they before they given to the people of Gaza and so on. Uh look, what are my thoughts about this? the people of Israel clearly uh don't have any love towards the people of Gaza. It's it's this thing this enmity goes too deep now and I suppose Israel will be okay with this. I suppose many people in Israel may be okay with this. Okay, it is what it is. Um I'm not sure about people in Israel paying to watch the bombing of a Gaza yacht. Not sure. But well yeah this is a absolute terrible tragedy and uh yeah what can I say I the UN should should should step in uh and stop whatever is happening and they should ensure that there is no terrorism that emanates from Gaza towards Israel and they should ensure that there is no more fighting that that Israel does bombing of Gaza as long as there is peace things can go forward and maybe people can move on with their lives uh there's no question about the fact that Hamas has been terrorizing Israel. They have all these tunnels in Gaza built under hospitals, built under what not, built under schools and they've been launching all kinds of missiles at Israel. And then the October 7 it was whatever date it was 2023 the terrorist attack against Israel which which sparked all of this off right. Uh so I think Gaza needs to be uh what needs to happen is that uh it needs to be uh demilitarized and then the UN should ensure that there is no more fighting and uh if there have been any war crimes from from whatever side they the people responsible for that need to be taken need to be brought to account I would say. Yeah it's it's a terrible situation overall. overall. But look, from from my perspective, I it's it's hard for me to to have a tremendous amount of sympathy for Gaza given the fact that Hamas supports Pakistan. Hamas supports Pakistan's activities in PK and overall their their their approach towards India has been very negative. Um you you have to put your nation first. But overall, I would say the UN should take over. There should be no more violence. Whatever is happening should end. If if anybody has committed war crimes or atrocities, they should be uh taken into account and brought to justice. No question about it. Yeah. Uh MK says, "If Israel ceases to exist, does it nuke the world like the US?" Because you said Israel someday controls US and US nukes world. It ceases to exist in nuclear war. What? Look, Israel, US, two separate nations. Okay, let's look at it that way. There may be tenuous control here and there. We'll not discuss that. Israel has something called the Samson option which says what is the Samson option? Israel is surrounded by historical enemies. Yes. And consider a hypothetical scenario in which the enemies are on the verge of destroying Israel. Israel's military has failed and the enemies are are on the verge of invading and smashing Israel to bits. Hypothetical scenario. In that scenario, Israel will employ the the Samson option which is a nuclear option in which it will destroy all its enemies. So if we we are destroyed, we'll ensure everybody else falls with us. And they have apparently a list of targets. No Indian targets but interesting targets nonetheless. Okay. In the Samson option, some world capitals are there allegedly. allegedly major capitals not not Indian not in any Indian city. The US the US also has its version of the Samsung option which is nuke the whole world. If the US is in is in under imminent danger of going under, they will launch nuclear missiles at everybody including nations that have done nothing to them including India. That's the deal. So that is the the American augmented sansson option which is the whole world will be destroyed if is if the US goes down. That is their plan. That that's so evil. Seriously, it's incredibly evil. But that's their plan. Um that's all I'll say about this. Okay. Interesting question comes up over here. Yes, very interesting. Vishal Nata says recently an ex CIA operative John Kirikao revealed that the Pakistani nuclear command is indeed under American control that is it is uh controlled by an American general and my assumption has turned out to be true. Well, it was uh yeah. So, yes, this this I I've seen the video I have seen the video of this person, this gentleman, CIA agent uh John Kirikawa saying this the Pakistani nuclear command is under American control. It's an American general who controls the Pakistani nuclear so-called deterrent. It's American nuclear weapons that the Pakistanis have and they are controlled by Americans. That's the deal. So, here we have it. Once again, the Americans have plausible deniability. They'll say, "No, this guy is irrelevant or or or he's unreliable." And this is an unofficial statement. He's he has retired so so and so years ago and he no longer knows what's happening and he's making claims that are completely false. They can make any kind of statement. They can claim plausible deniability, but the fact is that it's it's amply clear now. The so-called Pakistani nuclear deterrent is actually American nuclear weapons on Pakistani soil aimed at India. Maybe at other countries also, but mainly at India, which tells you the relationship that the Americans have with us and the way they see the way they see their relationship with India. Apurwaraji says, "Is India prepared to take a definitive leadership role in the global south or does it still see itself as a bridge between the west and the east?" So you can do both, right? You can do both. A nation like India, we are on good terms, friendly terms with everybody except for a couple of countries. We are not on good terms with China because of the Chinese attitude towards us. We aren't on good terms with Pakistan because Pakistan is a US vasal and and a terrorist nation and it exists to bleed us. Apart from these two countries, we have Turkey that is pro Pakistan and very strongly anti-India. Apart from a few countries like these, a handful of countries, we have good relations with everybody. So even if we take up an increasingly larger leadership role in the global south as we are doing now, it doesn't prevent us from being a bridge between the west and the east for example. We are we are on great terms with all the Asian nations except one essent except two China and and Pakistan two and a half Turkey also. Beyond that all other nations in Asia are are with we have great relations with them. We have great relations with Russia. We have great relations with well the west US kind of it depends on the US but from our perspective we would like to be great friends with the US also. So if there is a need for mediation between between the US and Russia and the the two are not on talking terms we could step in and and perhaps uh mediate in some way or so or something like that. So we are certainly taking on a larger leadership role in the global south. You saw that in during the 2023 G20 summit during which we took the initiative of bringing in the African Union into the G20 which it wasn't there before. We brought it in. Um and uh right now the our prime minister is on this trip to a large number of global south nations. Uh so we are doing that. We are actively doing that taking on a larger and larger leadership role. At the same time we can be a bridge between the east and the west. So both scenarios are true at the same time. It's not either or. It's this and that. Why not? Wouldn't arm or PK says why don't Romani people get the sympathy they deserve? And can we Indians, civilians or government do something to help them? See the reason why Romanes are hated in Europe? First of all, who are the Romani people? They are also called gypsies. They are nomadic people who live on the outskirts of towns and cities and they are horribly oppressed. Um they have been they they first entered Europe about a thousand years ago and they have never been allowed to settle anywhere. They always pushed from one place to another. They have been horribly oppressed in the past. They have been enslaved. They have been killed in large numbers. Killed for being Romani or enslaved for for generations and so on. And u even today they they are second class citizens often even today they don't have papers which is citizenship documents of any country they they are horribly oppressed and they are some of the most talented people in Europe some of the best footballers some of the best musicians in Europe will have Romani origins Robert Plant of Led Zeppelin one of the greatest rock singers of all time Romani uh Eric Ktona one of the greatest Manchester United strikers Romani So many apiro Andre Apirllo one of the great Italians Romani I can give you so many examples of of great Romani people but they are horribly oppressed flamingco music and dance of in Spain Spain is known for flamco music and flamco dance right that's Romani it's not Spanish it's Romani but why do they not give get the sympathy they deserve because they are brown because they used to be polytheists Hindus who are the Romanis they are descendants of Indians. How did they end up in Europe? How did they end up in Europe? Well, Indians were enslaved by the millions during the Gori Gori and Gaznavi era eras. The Goris and the Ghnavis and other Turks. They launched raid after raid into India. Took took away a lot of plunder, tremendous amount of gold and jewels and wealth. destroyed our temples like Subnath and took killed all the men and took a lot of women and children as slaves and took them into central India to be sold in the bazars of Bkhar and Sabarand Pashkand Indians and eventually they ended up with a surplus of enslaved Indian women and children. So what they did they did not want to commit a slaughter perhaps on their soil. They were okay doing it in India but to kill hundreds of thousands of people perhaps in in Central Asia they didn't want to do it do do that. So they told him to get lost, leave but you can't go back to India, go westwards and that's how these people ended up wandering all across Europe. So there are the descendants of our people the language the Romani language it is closest to Gujarati Rajasthani Punjabi these languages western northern western Indian languages if you speak one of these Indian languages you will actually understand the Romani language to some extent. Yeah. And they used to be Hindus but now they they practice whatever religion they have had to adopt in order to survive. So they are still many of them are still visibly Indian brown like us and that's why they are hated and oppressed in Europe. Even today even today European nations treat them like third class citizens. Even today in some nations it's better. Turkey treats the Romani people better than the other European nations. In in Turkey, the Romanis don't claim to be Romani. They say we are Turks, we are Muslims and we are proud Turks. As long as you do that in Turkey, you'll be fine. In Spain, some Romanis are very rich because of flamingco music. In in other countries, some footballers and musicians are very rich and all, but overall they are horribly oppressed. Charlie Chaplan was a Romani and so on. So, what can we Indians do to help them? First of all, let's help ourselves. Okay. um we can support them on social media etc. You can reach out to Romani people and express your support towards them and whatever. But if you if you really want to help them, we have to become a much more powerful, much richer, much more powerful, much more capable nation. Then we can help our people. Um, Nille says, "Is Britain America's 51st state?" Well, Canada is 51st. Britain, maybe Britain is the 51st state. Maybe Canada is 52nd. The five eyes nations. At the center, we have the US. Then you have four other nations, the UK, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. These are essentially extensions of the US, additional states of the US so to say. And yeah, Britain is is their number one vasal. So yeah, you could say it's the 51st state if you want to say why not. Uh now this is not a geopolitical question. So why do you ask this sir? Many civilizations and religions ended when and so on. What do you think this civilization will last for? How many years? Which one? Which one? Sir, India. India will last another 10,000 years. Lindy effect. Uh MK says, why didn't the US give its nukes to Taiwan to keep China off balance like it gave nukes to Pakistan to keep India off balance? Uh for the longest time, the US saw China as as not as a rival but as one of their tools, possibly an American tool. So the Americans aided and abetted the rise of China. They midwifed the rise of China from the 1970s onwards. Ever since the the the the Nixon Maine and slowly China started becoming a manufacturing nation and manufacturing stuff that the west wanted, the US wanted at very cheap rates and the Americans thought that if China becomes more prosperous, it will become democratic. That was kind of crushed. Those aspirations were crushed in 1989 the Tanan Men Square massacre. Uh but the Americans still thought that they can keep China on their side. That was delusional thinking. It's only around 2008 2012 that that that period of time that they started understanding the China's actually arrival. uh but by the time China had become quite powerful and putting you know giving nukes to Taiwan would have been a very very very big provocation which could have possibly risked immediate action by China and maybe that's why they did not do it. So there must be some calculations behind this otherwise they would have loved I'm sure if they had seen this earlier they would have probably put you know nukes in Taiwan. Puruam says do nuclear submarines run on nuclear fusion? No, they run on nuclear fish. They have miniaturized nuclear reactors which are fish reactors, not fusion reactors. Uh geopolitical dub says, do you see any power struggle in the Chinese Communist Party and the people's liberation army? Well, there are indications something could be happening. For example, uh recently I saw some news that Xiinping had purged the Chinese military leadership of about a 100 generals. a big churn in the leadership. Purging generals means you sack them and perhaps put them under trial or jail them. Um so maybe this was u an initiative whose intention was to ensure that there is no disloyalty in the Chinese Communist Part in in the people's liberation army. um because the people's liberation army is obviously the the real that's where the real power of the Chinese Communist Party comes from. So that's why the PLA has to be 100% loyal to Xiinping. So in case there are some people some commanders some generals who have have shown subtle hints or signs of dis disloyalty towards Jinping that will be watched over time and once a pattern is established they will be marked for the next in line to be purged and at a certain time you suddenly purge a hund of them which sends a message to everybody that you've got to be 100% loyal. So that seems to have happened recently. I saw the report I think last week or something that about a hundred highranking generals were purged in the people's liberation army. So there is something that keeps on happening like this. You know that's something that was very characteristic of the Stalinist era in the USSR. That was a terrifying era. I mean such incredibly capable generals were purged in in Stalin in the during the Stalinist era. Being purged means you were shot. your whole family was shot. That's how it was. Uh so something like this seems to be happening in China also periodically. In the CCP also you will have that from time to time. So you you do see this. It's it's an ongoing process in the CCP in the PLA. You you you have to be paranoid if you're a dictator. You have to be paranoid otherwise you never know when you fall out of power. I mean uh Lavender what happened to him? One day he is the number one guy, next day he's being shot in the USSR by Nikita Kruef. That sort of thing. You have got to be careful if you're a dictator in an authoritarian nation like that. Um Shashwat says, "Your thoughts on oil exploration in the Andermans and the extent and duration to to which it could change our fortunes." Well, we'll have to wait and watch. We'll have to wait and watch. uh the minister what's his name? Uh Mr. Hardib Singh Puri he reasonably recently made a statement that India may be on the verge of a very major uh oil discovery in the Anammans. So we'll have to see about that. Uh recently Guyana I think it was Guyana that made a huge oil discovery and which changed their fortunes. So if we stumble upon something like that then it could change our fortune. So I don't know. I think we it's it's too early to count it's it's too early to count what the chickens don't count your chickens before they hatch they say right so I think it's too early to start start celebrating or any such thing uh it looks like there are indications in the and where there's a lot of drilling going on so so what happens when you're prospecting for oil under under the ocean is you drill and it's a very expensive process each drilling platform costs about $100 million and you've got to drill a h 100 times perhaps to find a big reserve of oil. So you end up spending maybe maybe 10 billion but then what you discover will way more than make up for those $10 billion. So you got to drill hundreds of such uh test holes and shafts under the ocean and maybe there are indications it looks like that it's an oil richch region the andan region. So let's keep our fingers crossed and let's pray to the gods and if we do discover something massive then it will totally change it will totally change India's fortunes. If we discover something similar to what Guyana has discovered we become a major oil exporter in a few years. We not only are able to uh ensure that we have our own supplies of oils. We don't have to import anything else but we could end up becoming a net exporter just like Kuwait, Iraq, Saudi Arabia or whatever Iran. Yeah, I mean imagine how that changes the equations, geopolitical equations in the world. So that could happen. That's the scenario. But nothing has been discovered yet. No announcement has been made yet. So let's wait and watch. But if it happens, fantastic. Uh Purotradan says we should develop fusion bombs. In 1998 when we tested five nuclear weapons, one of those weapons was a two-stage device, three-stage device actually. The first stage is a chemical explosion. Chemical explosions, explosions like TNT or whatever. Okay, doesn't matter what it is. Chemical explosion. That's the first stage. The second stage was fish. So the chemical explosion rams the second the two halves of the fish device together and that gives rise to a fish explosion. Fish chain reaction. That's a standard fishision bomb. But there's a third stage. The fish implosion will implode a third a core which will then undergo fusion. And that fusion reaction gives off way more energy as an output than the fish reaction ever can. So that's a two-stage or three-stage thermonuclear fish fusion device also called a hydrogen bomb. We tested that in 1998. So we have we have that in our arsenal. A fish and fusion device a thermonuclear device. A hydrogen bomb like that's what they used to call that that device in the 20th century when I was a little kid. Hydrogen bomb. So we have that we have f fusion devices. Uh Benjamin Nathanos says can I become India's most reliable long-term strategic partner in the Middle East surpassing Iran or even Saudi Arabia? Lessons should India learn from me? Israel is to a large extent a very reliable uh partner for India in in military technology in military cooperation. There's a lot of convergence of interests that we have with Israel. Um for example um we have developed certain weapons systems together. The the Barack missile very very good missile. Okay. It's the probably the only missile that can take out a Brahmos. So we have that our ships our our warships. Okay. They will have Brahmos missiles as well as Barak missiles. So we have the poison and the antidote on the same ship together. So the barak missile it can be used for a variety of things and uh that's an Indo-Israeli project. Then we have the harup loitering munition loitering drone kamikaz dr dr dr dr dr dr dr dr dr dr dr dr dr dr dr dr dr dr dr dr drone it's not a loitering drone it's a kamikaz drone right suicide drone uh that is being built manufactured in India and that's an Israeli design. So we have a lot going on together and we have other kinds of cooperation as well um technological cooperation, strategic cooperation possibly and much more. So we have excellent relations uh with Israel. We also have excellent relations with other partners in the in in West Asia, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Iran is a good reasonably good partner for us. No question about that. Uh and and other nations like uh Oman for example uh and uh and so on. So yeah, that's that is the situation and I'm sure that India and Israel relationship can become even better in the future. They would not ever be opposed to that. Yeah, they will they would welcome that. Grock says Russia and China are which type of communists? Well, Russia is no longer a communist nation. Russia is not a communist nation. The USSR was a communist nation. What type? A Marxist Leninist, I would say. Uh China is is still a de facto communist nation. Uh Maoist communism no longer Marxist Leninist but the Mao style of communism used to be on in vogue. Now it is Xi Jinping thought that drives the ideological uh part of of how China is is governed. So that's the flavor of communism that you have in China today. But China is also a capitalist nation. It's an out andout capitalist nation with some socialistic characteristics and they like to harp upon the socialist part, but it's not really a very socialistic country overall. It's an authoritarian regime. It's a dictatorship for sure, but it's still a very uh capitalistic with a lot of state controllers. It's it's a hybrid. It's a mishmash of things, but it works well for them. Okay. Sergeant Skylin says, "What will happen to the carry engine program?" I think it's going to be used for UAVs. UAVs is uh unmanned aerial vehicles. Maybe UCAVs, unmanned combat aerial vehicles, maybe something else. And maybe it'll be continued in that manner. So I think it'll continue, but it will it's no longer going to be considered for uh fighter jets, fighter planes. Maybe something else is a foot. We'll have to see about that. We'll we'll see. Benjamin Netanyahu says, "Why do I keep posting wrong maps of India? Explain." Well, I'll have to ask you sir about that. Why do you do that? Yeah, I can't read your mind, sir. Can I? Uh, look, Israel and India, we have a lot of strategic convergence, a lot of convergence of interest, but we have differences as well. And yeah, that's how that's why this happens. For example, on on a lot of lot on on many occasions, we vote against Israel when it comes to UN resolutions in on on some occasions at least. And we have some differences here and there, which is why these things happen. Avir says Turkey is now supplying Bangladesh. Can we not preempt this like Israel before it escalates and becomes a three-front situation for us? You can't just unilaterally start bombing countries and all that. Okay? Israel can do it and get away with it. we can't uh and and Bangladesh will never become a three-front situation for us. We obviously have to keep an eye on what's happening in Bangladesh. But Bangladesh is simply incapable of challenging India militarily no matter what they think or what they say. So we have to keep an eye on what's happening and in case there is something in the future we can neutralize the threat. Okay, that that won't be difficult for us. Uh Achintia Ananda says, "What's the op optimal plan for the Indian Navy currently? Area denial or power projection in the Indian Ocean, which means carriers versus nuclear submarines." Uh the optimal plan, see, let me put it this way. Um let's say you are learning how to play cricket and you want to be a batsman. So what's the first thing you learn as a batsman? You learn how to block the ball, how to play defense, right? Play defense. You first have to ensure you don't get out. The ball doesn't go through the gap and hits your stumps, right? You want to ensure that that that that's taken care of first. So the first thing you do is to tighten your defenses and make it impossible for somebody to to get you out. So in my opinion, what should be done about the Indian Navy? First of all, we have to be superb at defense. Which means we need to have a very powerful coast guard all across our eastern western coast. Maybe hundreds of ships or boats, patrol vessels. Then we need to have once that is done, we need to have distributed lethality which is warships and submarines in judicious numbers. And uh look what what is the measure? How do you measure the lethality of a of a naval force of a navy? Is it number of ships? If I have 300 ships, I've got a powerful navy. No, you don't measure the lethality of a navy by the number of ships. The lethality of a navy is measured by the number of missiles you can deploy on any given day. On average, on any given day, how many missiles can you deploy at sea? That's the lethality of your navy. Okay? So you need to distribute the lethality which means that don't concentrate everything all the firepower in a few ships. Distribute it across lots of ships far and wide across the ocean. So you need to have a mix of different kinds of warships. You need to have corvettes. You need to have destroyers. You need to have cruisers. Cruisers is still operational whatever. U missile boats and submarines and different kinds of submarines. Attack submarines. uh missile uh nuclear submarines and whatnot and that once again I would not want to do power projection right now. You want to essentially u have a very visible presence in the eastern and western Indian oceans. Indian oceans which is the so-called Arabian Sea and the so-called Bay of Bengal should be visible and ever present the Indian presence in the region. And then once you have developed all of this that you can on demand deploy your your ships to a certain region maybe the Gulf of uh the the the the the straight of Mala or the straight of Hormuz or the Gulf of the straight of Bab al-Mandde or whatever once you have that ability that's where you can think of uh you know having more ships or maybe more aircraft carriers or something. So I think that's how you should do it. You should do it step by step. Start with the very basics with with just defense. Once you your defense is impregnable, then you start developing more options, more offensive options. Then you can start developing power production abilities to various states straits and all that. Then you can have can have aircraft carriers. You also have the Andermans where you can deploy fighter planes and submarines. So that's like an unsinkable aircraft carrier. That's how it should be done. Maybe you should have a 20 30 year plan and ideally you the Indian Navy should have in excess of 300 warships of different kinds including submarines. It's very feasible. It will take time but why not do it? Okay. Uh Karan says, "Could the North Caucasus become a geopolitical fault line given its native peoples like the Vä and the Sassins are non-indouropean and non-Indoarian and hold distinct and Islamic and ethnic identities unlike their neighbors." Uh look, it's it's kind of like the Balkans. The Caucasus region is is complicated. Let me put the map on. Okay. Lots of different ethnicities, small ethnic groups. It's situ situation very similar to the Balkcon region. So the Caucasus region is the region between the Black Sea and the and the Caspian Sea. Okay. And you have these nations here Azarbaijan, you have Armenia, you have Arus, you have Georgia, you have Russia and Russia also in the caucuses. have the Chachchan people, the the the the uh Dagistani people and also you have all these different smaller ethnic groups like the Sarcassians, the Wak u the Laz people and so much more the Laz people. Yeah, you may have the Laz people also perhaps over here. Uh so and and there are lots of old feuds and enmities and all that over here. I'm not sure if the sarcasians are non-indo-uropean. The chachchans for sure are Indo-Iranian. Uh for sure the chachans, the Dagistanis, I'm not sure. So it's it's I myself I'm not very clear about exactly which ethnicity belongs to which larger group. As far as I see, the Sarassians are Indo-Uropeans. Uh any anyway, that's that's not the point. The point is that uh it's it's a mishmash of ethnicities. It's got a very convoluted history. Lots of old feuds and enmities are there. Uh but as long as there's a big power in the region or big powers, all those little feuds and all don't matter. So if there is if if see right now the major power in the region is obviously Russia, you also have Turkey, you also have Iran. So it's at the confluence of of Russia, Turkey and Iran this region. Okay. Uh and historically it was part of greater Iran, right? Um but the major power today is Russia. And as long as Russia's power is there and it power ability is there, all these little little rivalries and all they will not really matter. But you are right, it's a very complex region just like the Balkans. It's slightly less complex than the Balkans, but yeah, you can compare it to the Balkan region. uh it can become a geopolitical fault line and obviously you have instability there. You have the Azarbaijan Armenia conflict. You've had issues in Georgia in the past. There's the Turkish influence. There's Iranian influence. There's the Iran Azarbaijan issue. The Azarbaijan Armenia issue. The Russia Georgia issue and and so much more. The Americans also are trying to do stuff there. Turkey is trying to create a panther corridor. So it is a geopolitical fault line. But as long as Russia is powerful enough, things will be under control. Game Boy says how are we sovereign if we rely on US tech operating systems apps cloud we don't have jet engine technology we have no jet engine technology low G20 tax 11% of GDP G20 tax I'm not sure what anti-India social media freebies nation building check operation sundu for reality what's your question we are not sovereign we are sovereign we have issues we have less issues than many other nations trust me and what about operation sindu for reality. We we won operation sindu sindur. Are you one of those people who believes that we lost operation sindur? Are you one of those people who believe that? Well, if that's the case, you need a reality check. But see, you are right that we rely on US tech. Our operating systems are are all American systems. All the platforms we use, social media platforms and so on are American platforms. We don't have our jet engine technology. Uh social media is very antidia. You're right about that. freebies over nation building. True. I can list 20 more issues that we have. But we are still sovereign. Why are we still sovereign? We have no foreign military bases on our soil. That's one, right? We have our own currency. That's number two. We control our borders. We have issues at the borders. No question. Manipur is a big disaster zone right now. H nobody wants to talk about it. We have P which is under Pakistani occupation. Akai Chin which is under Chinese occupation. China claims Arunachal. Now we claim Tibbe perhaps say that Tibet is is disputed. We have issues but whatever we control we control. We have sovereignty over our territory. We have sovereignty over our economy because we have our own currency and we can set our policies. We have sovereignty over our military. We don't have any foreign military bases on our soil and we don't have our military under foreign command like we have in the NATO nations and so much more. So because of all those macro factors, we are still a sovereign nation which most other other nations can't claim. We have issues. No question. Every nation has issues. But let's not be defeist and start crying. H let's not do that. We'll solve the issues. Nille says Trump is now president but still CIA is unable to find motive behind the Trump assassination attempt. Why so? The public will the public never know the motive? The public will never know the motive. Does the public even today know why JFK was assassinated or who who did that? H and is Trump chastising the CIA for not uh discovering the motive? Most likely Trump knows what happened. But the public doesn't need to know about it. That's how it goes. The public is not important. The public doesn't matter. The public doesn't know to know doesn't need to know a lot of things. Even today, you don't know who who killed JFK and why he was killed. There's a lot you don't know about. And you're not supposed to know about this. We are we are not supposed to know about this. We don't matter, right? We are public. Public doesn't matter. Democracy, what democracy? Haha. Godliness says Turkey and China openly help Pakistan in the May conflict. Yeah. Do you believe us or any other nation help India the same way? No. No. If not, then does comprehensive strategic global partnerships are just word play? We don't have any comprehensive global partnership with anybody. We have no alliance, military alliance with anybody whatsoever. So what word play? There's no word play here. We stand alone. When Iran was hammered by the Americans, who came and stood with Iran? They had this war with Israel, right? They hammered Israel. They smashed lots of neighborhoods in Tel Aviv with their missiles and Tel Aviv was was devastated. Then Tehran was devastated. Iranian cities were devastated by the Israelis. Um Iranian IRGC military personnel were killed. Their nuclear scientists were killed. Then the Americans hammered for Natans is Fahan with their bunker busting bombs and so on. All of this happened. Who came and stood with Iran? Tell me. Did Russia come and stand with Iran? Iran is selling is is supplying Russia with shahed drones right for the Ukraine war. Did Russia come and stand with Iran? Iran is selling very cheap oil to China. Did China come and stand with Iran? Mm-m. That is the nature of the world, my friends. You think only India is alone? No. Everybody is alone. Everybody is alone. Nobody's going to come and stand with you when when things go wrong. So the why why do we need somebody to stand with us? We are 1.4 billion of us, right? Isn't that enough? So my point is we don't have any strategic global partnership or or or any military alliance with anybody a partnerships and all is like you say like you're right it's all word play. Oh we are great partners and we we we shared we share so many values blah blah blah. It's all words. Nobody's going to come and stand with us. The Americans have supplied Pakistan with nuclear weapons. You think they'll come and stand with us? They operate the Nurhan air base. The Pakistani nuclear weapons are under the control of an American general. You think the Americans will still come and stand with us? What they want? Obviously they won't. H AL says deputy chief of army staff says we are fighting three enemies Pakistan, Turkey, China access but initially he said fourth and corrected instead of three enemies. If he meant four then who? Well see you see you have to understand Pakistan is not one entity it is two entities. There are east Pakistan and west Pakistan. I hope that answers your question right does it? If if that's what he what he meant. So I would say that if he said that then probably that's what he meant perhaps. Perhaps. Okay. Grock says US will not want Russia to grow economically and would always want it to be in conflict. Question mark. China too wants that and Russia has golden chance to get ceasefire on his term. Why war still? What ceasefire? What golden chance? Where? Where? Do you think you can believe you can trust America's word? If America gives you an assurance, do you think you can trust it? The Americans promised the the the Russians that you allow the reunification of East and West Germany in 1991 and we will not expand NATO one inch eastwards. They promised that. What happened? What happened? You think you can trust their word? Even if they sign an agreement, you think you can trust them? Even if it's in writing with their stamp and seal and signature of Donald Trump, you think you can trust them? What happened with the JCPOA, the Iran nuclear deal? It was signed, right, by the US president. Trump walked away from it. All these promises and treaties mean nothing. You have to look at your national interest. You to look at your threat perception, your threat uh the threat environment, and you have to make your decisions based on that. The Americans, if they say that, okay, we will give you a ceasefire in the Ukraine war, we'll end the Ukraine war. It means that they want it to to to temporarily be paused as long as they can take care of something else and then they will restart it anytime they like it when you are in a maybe more disadvantageous position. There's no golden chance. Golden chance. What golden chance? Please, please, sir, wake up. There's no golden chance. Rational reporter says Armenia is so interesting. Small nation, low population, Abrahamic, surrounded by enemies, fighting for survival. Reminds me of another nation. Can we groom it as our own mini attack talk in Central Asia like US did in Middle East? No. No. That's a nation that's under threat of being destroyed. And who do we attack with it? We don't want to. What do we gain by let's say hypothetically we use Armenia as an attack dog. How does it serve India's national interest? to understand to to answer the question that I just asked. How does it serve India's national interest? Ask yourself, what is India's national interest? What is it? Is it to start fights everywhere in the world? That's not our national interest. Our national interest is to grow our economy to 10, 15, 20 trillion dollars and move forward. Keep moving forward. That's our national interest. Our national interest is not to poke our noses in other people's affairs. then it'll encourage others to poke their noses into our affairs more. Why should we groom Armenia as our attack dog? It'll destroy Armenia first of all. It's a good nation, good people. And secondly, how does it serve our national interest? What what do we get out of it? I don't understand. It doesn't serve our national interest at all. It's not a good good idea by any means. So my point is this. See, I criticized what you said, right? But this is what you should take away from from my answer. You should know what the national interest is always when you're thinking of what should India do. Should we do this? Should we do that? Should we take this this this course of action? That course of action. Whatever course of action you're thinking about, ask yourself, how does it serve my national interest? And to answer the question, you have to know what the national interest is. The national interest is the long-term security prosperity of the nation and its people. And the nation and the people should thrive in the long term. That's the national interest. And what is imperative for that? Economic growth. What is imperative for that? Long-term peace. Right? And sometimes to make peace, you have to fight wars. So you can have long-term peace only if you take get rid of Pakistan as an entity next to us. So that's why operation zindur makes sense. But fighting having Armenia turn into attack dog. How does it serve our national interest? Okay, that's how you think. That's called critical thinking. Okay. S P says uh loving your understanding America series. Thank you sir. When will you drop the next episode? Excited for it. Well uh yeah uh it's already recorded. It needs to be edited. It takes some time. Right now I'm doing a whole lot of stuff. I need to cut down on some on some on some things. So, yeah, it'll it'll come out soon in the next maybe maybe two three weeks, the next episode, and then it'll hopefully become more regular. There's been a little bit of hiatus, but it will soon be taken care of. All right. Uh, science nerd said, "How come you suddenly added Israel in the sovereign nations list? Earlier, you did not include Israel." You see you have to reassess constantly and if you have made mistakes in the past you have to correct them. You cannot be stuck with your ego and said I said only four so only four. No I missed out on Israel and I I have corrected myself. I had made a mistake. Israel should have been included because when you think of things properly and look at each nation thoroughly then you will realize that Israel is indeed a sovereign nation despite whatever. So I corrected myself and I have now added Israel to the sovereign nation list. You have to be willing to change your opinion otherwise you never progress in life. You will never learn. All right. Okay. Okay. Jay Thiari says Indian global India global power. How shackled by colonial laws, bureaucracy, corruption, poor business ease, broken education system, weak R&D, trash, civic sense, decay, sick institutions, health neglect, rising divisions, 19th century judiciary. Sir, I am not saying India will be a global power anytime soon. India should just be a strong power in the in the region. Uh India should be able to ward off China and all these You are absolutely 100% right. All these issues you've listed, they are indeed things that are keeping India down. So many problems. What you are essentially showing us is that India has never decolonized and we are continuing with the colonial system and the colonial baggage and the colonial garbage and the and and the and the and the rotten colonial system and all those all those compromised institutions and so much more and that's creating more more divisions and more fissures and fragmentation and etc all of that in India no question about it and despite that we are rising as an economy for somehow. So imagine if we solve all these problems, what will happen? India will be unstoppable. But the pro the question is who's going to solve this and how long will it take? I think it'll take a long time to solve these problems in one go. You will need a superhuman leader. We've had such leaders in the past once in a few hundred years. It's been a few hundred years since we had something somebody like that. The last great leader I can think of is probably Chhatraata Shivaji Maharaj and some of the Peshawas. Um before that you had the the father-son duo of Rajend of Rajar Raj and Rajendra Chola. So you need somebody of that stature of that willpower and fortitude to rise in India. If a person like that rises then everything will be solved. It'll be difficult but it will happen. So maybe it'll take 50 years for this to be solved. By the time if we can just make decent progress, 6% 7% economic growth per year, even that will make us a powerful nation. So we have problems, no question, lots of problems, but let's not be all defeatist. Let's be optimistic. No matter how bad things are, things could be worse and things can get better. So let's be optimistic. We have problems, but we have to look for solutions and not just sit down and lie down and go to sleep. That's not the solution. Gro says today's geopolitical situation if Espatel had been first PM I don't know you can a thousand things could have happened I don't know that's all hypothetical what's the point of thinking about that let's let's be realistic and look at where where we are today right and where we could go puro Pradan says why don't we become a vasal of the US and we'll be safe look at Japan Japan is very safe TFR is dead the economy is dead and Japan will cease to exist as nation in the next 50 years there will be no Japanese left. Very safe. Look at South Korea. Same situation. Very safe. Look at Germany. Where are the German people today? They are being overrun by immigrants. Does Germany even exist as a nation? Very safe. What are you talking about? You're looking at things from a very narrow self-centered perspective. Oh yeah, I will have better quality of life. I will have US US cereal to eat in the morning. I will get import from the US. my my phone will be 10% cheaper. That's how you're looking at things. But you're not looking not looking at the long-term effect on the nation. It'll destroy the nation. It'll destroy our civilization. If you become a US vasal in 15 20 years, 80% of Indians will be Christians. Nothing against any specific religion, but this industrial scale demographic re-engineering will happen, which is already happening to a large extent in the country. It'll just accelerate. Do we want that? What will be safe? Are you kidding me? We'll be destroyed. Raul says, "What geopolitical shifts would happen if if Iran became Zoroastrian again? And how could that happen when half of the population descends from Caucasian immigrants who followed indigenous cockas, not Indo-Iranian religions?" Well, that's a lot of hypotheticals here. I mean, Iran is not under any danger of becoming Zoroastrin. in I I hear that a lot of people in Iran no longer follow Islam. That's what I hear. It may be true, it may be false. I don't know. Uh but are they reverting to Zorastianism? I don't think they are. Maybe they they don't know how to perhaps whatever it is. See, but if Iran becomes Zorastian again, uh first of all, you're right. Half the population is non-Persian, right? U of course you had Zoroastrianism which was spread beyond present day Iran. the Caucasus region. I think it was the roast before Armenia became Christian. Um so let's say hypothetically the whole of Persia becomes Zoroastrian then it will be very different obviously uh how what geopolitical shift would happen I think Iran would become more neutral or look the or maybe not maybe not when Iran was the roast it was at the pinnacle of its power imperial power the hakshamish dynasty aid dynasty Right. The househatra these great kings, great emperors who fought the Europeans if if if Persia becomes Zostran again, they'll again go expand westwards which will not be very good for our friends in Israel. Right? Of course, it was the Zarastrians who who saved the Jews from u who gave the Jews shelter in Persia during the occupation by the Assyrians and so on. That's a whole history. But yeah, Zoroast and Persia was an imperial power. It'll become friendly with India and it will it will again start its its imperial campaigns against the West. So that could happen. Who knows? Who knows? Wamshi Kalem says$125 trill trillion dollar economy is in our own national interest. I completely agree. Next stop is 125 trillion. Totally agree. Next 50 years right uh puram says I know that I just wanted to know from you what did you know if why don't you become a vasal of the US that thing. Yeah. So then I I I I then gave you the answer that you wanted. So all right there we go. Okay. Let us maybe take a few more questions and then we will end today's live stream. Um let us see I don't know do we have more questions there's a lot of discussion happening in the chat. Uh okay let's take this question as the last question. Please stop asking questions. This this will be the last one for today. Okay. The question is in go government exam. Okay. In government exam if question is about the highest peak of India. Uh K2 and Kjanga are both in the option but K2 is wrong. It's in a disputed area. The government organizations are a part of government. Government doesn't accept them as Indian areas but want people to be vocal. What is why this hypocrisy? Okay. Okay. So in the government exam the question is what's the highest peak of India they they've given options and in the options you have K2 and Kenjunga and if you take if you if you select K2 which is in P they'll say it's wrong. Is is that what you're saying? Well that should be it should be right because see Everest is in Nepal half Nepal half Tibet. Uh Tibet is a disputed territory of course. uh but K2 is in PK which is Indian territory. So the right answer should be K2 and if in a government exam they saying K2 is wrong then those people need to have their heads examined and their loyalties examined loyalty to the nation right um so yeah this this happens at lower levels this happens at lower bureaucratic levels these bureaucrats you know they they go through the IAS exam and whatnot and I don't know what they what what garbage you have to study for the I is exam it essentially makes you an antinational it makes you hate Indian civilization So what can I say? It's it's terrible that that such things happen. U there are obviously many high many superb is officers. No question. But those are few and far between. Most unfortunately I don't know what to say about them. So yeah, this is this is wrong. K2 is the right answer. K2 is the right answer. Okay, there's one more question. This is the last for today. U so drones at the border over my home. Operation Hindu we've won but 18 India 181 19 in G20 tax GDP ratio R&D low talent we must build in inside like government using Indian OS for example but no one talks no we should have an Indian OS no question uh let it be based on Linux or whatever but it should be an Indian OS developed in India and be completely Indian I completely agree with you uh the amount of money we are investing in R&D the government is investing in R&D is is terribly low it's shameful obviously talent will leave if If you treat talent horribly, talent will leave. So you are right about these things. You're right. No question about it. We have so many problems in this country. They need to be addressed. And that's why I sometimes you will see me very frustrated especially when I talk about the education system which is the root cause of all all of these issues are indalent. I mean the way we treat our talent in the education system, it tells talent please leave the country, you are not welcome here. And then with the way we treat talent in other sectors, it tells talent if you want to do well, leave the country. You are not welcome here. In India, we welcome mediocrity. That's the system and that's what needs to be fixed. So you are right. No question about it. You're absolutely right. All right friends, whatever the problems we face, we're going to do well. We're going to surmount them and we're going to win. We will remain positive. We will not be pessimistic. will remain optimistic and we will all work as hard as possible to succeed. All right, so thank you so much for all your questions. I really appreciate them all. It was a fun fun live stream today. I really enjoyed the questions and I look forward to seeing you all next week. Please keep asking questions. Please keep asking questions of me. Please keep asking questions of yourselves. Keep learning. Keep raising your standards. And uh yeah, I'll see you next week. If you if you would like to like put a like down there, please do. And I'll see you I look forward to seeing you all next week. Thank you so much. Take care. Bye-bye. See you soon.