[Music] Hey, [Music] hey, hey. [Music] Down. [Music] Heat. [Music] Hello, good evening, good day everybody. Namaskar everybody and welcome back to the Ask a Widget Show. Today we are doing episode 291. We are talking about history, Indian history, world history, all kinds of history. We going to focus on history today. You all have asked a lot of questions in the comments and I've to taken a bunch of those. I'll answer as many as possible and later after that I will try and take some questions from the live chat as well. If there is time, I suppose there will be time. So let's do that. But first of all, let's see who all is there on the live chat. Let's see who who do we have. I can see Ganesh Shriant Sugjata Saha from Singapore. Hello Ashtavakra. Namaskar Wada Vikas PJ Sakshi Surywanchi Vish Pala Arush um Aayush Singh chat DSP Shrih Harun Aditya Kashir Geopolitical Dubai from Indorin 439 from from Twitch I suppose. Yes. Hello Krishna from the surmise Netherlands. Vikash PJ uh Arav Sha Berserk MMA Ajinka Pawar Bruce Wayne U Somi Jane Dave Imas Stalin Vladimir Putin u who else? Shreas D Kumal Sorab Pranav Soni Priyanchi Sud Tesh Pand Shashank Koshik Shiva Sai uh who else do we have? Sunil Seagel Chetan Radhya Animals for Laugh from Mumbai. Uh Himmanshu Kushwahas Himmanu Kushwah Somia Somalia Paul one of my first subscribers. Well, thank you so much. Good to have you on this live stream. Uh Arav Shah Jes good evening ma'am. Ajinkawar Sarab Vinit Yadav Namaste Achinti Anand Hello Rocky Bhai is here. Uh Shria Smith Mitra from Moscow. Well good evening to you. Shubat Shukla. Uh Aushin says the first time of radio chat from Twitch. Been messaging for a month. I'm sorry. So sorry. Well I've finally seen it. Good to have you. Mosh, Anul Sharma uh and everyone else. Pratik Vora, Shankr, Mahadevan, Nandi, is Shashi Kumar, Tanayak Shir, Saga, Vinit, Yadav, and everyone else. Okay, so let us get going. Sir Rohit is also here. Have I watched the Death Note? I may have watched an episode or two. It was pretty interesting, but I didn't could not find the time to watch the entire thing. Okay, Anime is here. Ashish GK satellite is also here. Vishpala is my subscriber. Good to have you ma'am. Vishpali. Very nice name. I like the name. Very historical name. A rigidic name, isn't it? Vishpala. Okay. All right. So, let's take some questions. Let's go for Let's go with the questions. What What's the first question that I have chosen? Where do we have the questions? I've got to uh find the questions. Where are the questions? Here they are. Let's get going with the questions. Okay. Okay, what's the first question? It's by Swapnil Bishra. How did early humans in the Indian subcontinent survive the climate extremes caused by the Toba super eruption and did it alter their migration patterns? H interesting question from more ancient history than we generally think about. So what is this Toba super eruption? Let's go to the map straight away. The first question takes us to the map. Let us go to the map and let's discover what this entire matter is. What is this Tuba super eruption? So, let's go and search for Tuba. Tuba uh not Tuba Tik Singh. Tuba volcano. Tuba volcano. Where do we find it's in Indonesia? It's going to go straight into it. Mount Tuba. And well, here it is, I suppose. So, as you can see, Mount Toba is located on an island inside a lake. And this lake is called Lake Toba. And if you zoom out, you will see that it is in Sumatra in Indonesia. So this lake that you see here, it's actually a volcanic crater. And there used to be a gigantic volcano here that erupted with utmost violence about 74,000 years ago. Gigantic, massive volcanic eruption that that caused a volcanic winter on the planet. huge massive eruption similar to um an asteroid impact event like not as bad as the Chukchulu impact event but kind of comparable kind of comparable to uh a nuclear winter which we would never like to see but yeah so this volcano which existed here erupted about 74,000 years ago as you can see it's not very far from the Indian subcontinent not far at all comparatively speaking so that's what we're talking about that's the Toba super volcano eruption happened about 74,000 years ago Now uh there are archaeological sites in Andhra Pradesh in northern India as well where you can clearly see that there is a layer of ash that is deposited in the in the ar in the in the in the sediment layers. And this happens exactly 74,000 years ago, right? And it's and what's interesting is that you find signs of human habitation just below the layer of ash and just above the layer of ash which means that humans were living in these regions in Andhra Pradesh Walapuram or something it's called and some place in northern India as well at least two such locations we are aware of. So humans were living just before the ash is deposited and just after the ash is deposited. How do we know humans are living there? Because you see signs of human levitation. You see stone tools and whatever else is associated with human habitation which indicates that there were humans just before this massive eruption happened and the human presence continued right after the h the massive eruption after this deposition of this layer of ash. So clearly unmistakable incontrovertible ev evidence that the same humans continued existing before and after this super volcanic eruption. Now what were the consequences of this eruption? This eruption expelled incredible amounts of ash into the atmosphere of our planet. This was so bad that it c it caused a volcanic winter which is that the entire atmosphere was shrouded in smoke and ash for about a decade. Essentially, this means there was no sunlight for a decade. What does that cause? If there's no sunlight, plants die because plants need sunlight for photosynthesis. Plants die out. What happens if plants die out? The animals that eat plants, they die out. What happens if animals that eat plants die out? Animals that hunt other animals who eat plants. Those predatory animals die out. Now, what are we homo sapiens? We are a mixture of a pred predator and someone who can subsist on plants. We are omniors, aren't we? Our ancient ancestors hunted. They also ate plant-based products, you know, whatever it was available. So it obviously would have impacted our ancestors who lived in the subcontinent 74,000 years ago but they survived. The question is how did they survive this disaster 5 to 10 years of no sunlight freezing temperatures it would have been snowing in Sri Lanka that sort of thing that sort of horrific climate change imagine if it happens today imagine the impact it'll have and our ancestors back then they survived how did they survive? Um we're not entirely sure what the mechanics and dynamics were. What we know is that the Indian subcontinent is a massive massive region. It's extremely fertile, rich in um everything that you need to sustain life. Rivers, forests, there used to be forests all over the place, plenty of animals. So our ancestors from that time would have had to adapt and go into emergency survival mode. uh this volcanic winter would not have wiped out all life on the planet. Maybe 50% of the species or or vegetation I'm not sure if species entire species were wiped out but the population levels would have dropped drastically by by maybe 60 70 80%. Right? So it would have been a time of great scarcity. Uh if fish survived they would have survived on fishing. If some other animals survived they would have survived by hunting those animals. whatever plant matter would have survived they would have tried to subsist of that. So essentially they somehow found a way to stay alive. One one thing you can do if something like this happens is you disperse you disperse over a wider area because let's say in the past let's say 100 square kilometers was enough to sustain a population of 10,000 humans for example hypothetically but now because of the tremendous scarcity maybe 10,000 people cannot subsist on a 100 square kilometer area. So you may have to disperse and spread far and wide so that there is less need to compete among each other for survival. So I suppose that that would have caused migrations within the Indian subcontinent and and still the subcontinent was able to somehow still provide sufficient uh resources for people who were scattered to survive to just scrge a living for a decade or so until the the climate patterns kind of resumed. the way they used to be before the volcanic winter. So it would have been a time of great of great great uh difficulty but they survived. That's what we know. Uh the archaeological record does not tell us what were the means of survival. What did they eat at the time? How did they disperse to what parts of India they disperse and so on. But they did survive and that's the only way you can survive. That's by somehow whatever food resources are available, you kind of make do with that. Maybe you shelter inside caves if it is too cold. If there's a lot of, you know, dead trees and all, you use the wood from the dead trees to to burn to to burn fire so that you you don't freeze to death in those freezing conditions. So our ancestors were extremely resourceful in which and that's the reason why we we still around over here. That's what happened. It was a disastrous event. And it would have caused catastrophic population declines, human population declines globally. But in the subcontinent which was a much richer area than other parts of the world, it was easier comparatively speaking to survive such a disastrous event. And that's how our ancestors managed to survive. And once that that period of about 10 years or so was over, things started coming back to normal. This would have impacted climate cycles for probably several decades, maybe a couple of centuries possibly. It would have taken maybe two three centuries for for the climate cycles to come back absolutely to the way they used to be before the super volcano eruption. But after you survive the first 5 to 10 years and you're still alive, things are going to be much better for you. So it's about somehow surviving surviving that time period. And of course, we humans are survivors. We have survived all kinds of disasters in the past. And this is one of a the prime examples of such a disaster. So yeah, that's how our ancestors survived and that's why we are here today. Uh how did it affect their migration patterns? We we're not sure how how it in what way it would have affected the migration patterns but it would have caused populations to disperse far and wide within the subcontinent itself. And eventually we know that the subcontinent subcontinent was the first place where you had the proper human settlement after the out of Africa migration because it was so rich. um in all kinds of resources and it would have eventually caused you know more migrations beyond the subcontinent. Maybe this was one of the triggers. This event the super volcano um new volcanic winter may may have been a trigger for multiple migrations perhaps even out of the subcontinent eventually. Swami Mukherji says what was the war so packed? Was it as effective as NATO? I feel the USSR was unable to create good alliances like the west. Hence, it was quite isolate is isolated. Okay. Um what was the Warso pact? It was a military alliance just like NATO and the Warso Pact alliance emerged as a response to the formation of NATO. So 1945 the second world war ends with the nuclear tests on the civilians of Hiroshima and Nagazaki and the European portion of the war had end had ended several months before that with the collapse of the Third Reich and the disappearance of Hitler. Right? Uh so 45 is the dawn the beginning of a new era of uh human history. Uh the US was the big winner of the war. Russia was also a big winner but the the USSR was also a big winner but they were devastated by the war. Devastated. And they had to create this massive industrial base just to survive the war and eventually to defeat the Reich. The US suffered no damage whatsoever continentally. So the US was like the big winner. the the baton the torch had passed from London UK to Washington DC by this time uh the uh the US dollar was now the world's reserve currency and the US in 1949 stitched up the North Atlantic Treaty Alliance Nate organization North Atlantic Treaty Organization which is a military alliance of uh the US Canada and a whole bunch of Western European nations to uh as as as a a response to the so-called Soviet threat. So the US is a nation that espouses democracy and freedom and human rights. And it says that these values are universal. These are universal western values. Okay, that's what it says. Democracy, freedom, human rights, all of that. Considering its impeccable track record, it should be the flag flag bearer of these of the of these values. So the US created the NATO. It first created something called the Atlantic Charter with the UK which espoused which enshrined these rights as universal values these values as universal values. In 1949 they created this this military alliance of all the uh nations that were kind of under US occupation in Western Europe to various degrees of uh to various degrees. And as a response to that in 1955 the USSR created the Warso pact which is an a similar military alliance between between the USSR and the Eastern European nations. So 1949 you have NATO in response 1955 you have the Warso pact. Uh this was the USSR and its vasals just like NATO is NATO is the US and the American vasals was it it is what it is. uh I don't warnish things I I say it as it is. So these are essentially vasals nothing else. So the USSR had a bunch of vasals in Eastern Europe and uh the kind of alliances what kind of alliances were these? So these were mutual defense pacts. An attack on one nation is like an attack on all the other nations. So they will come together and fight the the aggressor as as one group. That's how it was. Now technically if you are a member of NATO you can leave NATO you know technically you can do that in the Warso pact you could not leave. So you know if you if you ask Google or or whatever it is that you ask what's the difference between the between NATO and the Warso pack they'll say NATO was democratic and the Warsopact was authoritarian. In NATO you had the ide ideological difference between the two was that NATO was democratic. NATO was free and fair. It was open, transparent. PE a member state could leave NATO if they wanted to. The Warso pact was authoritarian. It was ruled by the USSR. The USSR was the sole hedgeim and no member member of the Warso pact could leave. Did NATO not have a me not have a hedgeim? So that sort of thing. So that that so that's the difference. These were two different ideologies. Western democracy which is the USR USA USA style democracy so to say and USSR style communism and authoritarianism. These were the two ideological polar opposites which were you know represented by these two uh different blocks. Now how effective was uh the wars of act? it was just as effective as NATO. But eventually because of the decline in standards in the USSR over the 20th century which led to its dissolution in 1990 1991 whenever it happened because of that uh the warsoact crumbled and eventually it no longer existed. U the USSR obviously did not play the game as well as the west. the west was able to essentially encircle the USSR and the nations within the USSR's uh uh sphere of control. No question about it. The the West was able to u to have essentially all complete access and control of the oceans. The USSR did not have that. So that's a different story. But Warso pact and NATO were both pretty similar. They they were in opposition of the other. And while while the Warso act lasted, it was pretty strong. Eventually it dissolved right? Okay. What are the characteristics says um this question of a civilization? What are the characteristics of a civilization and is uh how can India revert back to being a civilization and is the west a civilization? Can we considered the west to be a civilization? While the west says that it's a civilizational entity right they talk about western civilization and I speak about India as a civilizational state that we are not a nation state we are a civilizational state but am I being entirely honest when I say that let's question what I say I keep saying don't I that India is different from the west India is a civilization state and the west is an empire essentially that's what I say so first of all let let's so we have to approach this from first principles. What are the characteristics of a civilization? So clearly if you think about it, if you think of all the great civilizations that have existed in the past for example, you will know that a civilization is an advanced society, right? Clearly a civilization cannot be um a backward society or whatever. It has to be an advanced form of society. Now what are the characteristics of this advanced form of society? First of all, I think this is pretty obvious. that should have a highly evolved indigenous culture. An indigenous culture that is institutionalized in the institutions of the society. So that's the first characteristic of a civilization. A highly evolved and institutionalized indigenous culture. Secondly, if now any advanced society will have laws, it will have institutions, right? Uh it may have a constitution, it may not have a constitution. But whatever laws exist in the society, whatever constitution exists, in case it does, whatever institutions exist, all of these laws, institutions, constitution, blah, blah, blah, all of that has to be necessarily grounded or based in the indigenous culture and the indigenous values of the in of the of the society. So that's the second requirement of a civilization. All laws, all institutions, this constitution, whatever it is, has to be grounded. It has to be based in the indigenous culture, in the indigenous values of the civilization. Thirdly, you need to have an indigenous form of governance. You can't have a form of governance that is alien to the culture. Right? Next, you need to have a highly organized society. Organized society means a stratified society. division of labor, organized, institutionalized that that I mean, if you look at the Wikipedia page, I suppose of any of of the word civilization, it will tell you it's going to have a highly stratified society, right? So, you're going to have a highly organized society with division division of labor and stratification of society, you know, into various classes, societal classes. Okay, we're going to have that. Next you need to have a high level high degree of societal and political stability. The moment your political stability goes your society starts shake becomes becomes shaky and the civilization can disintegrate. So you need a high level high degree of societal and political stability. Next this is this is required. You need to have a single civilizational language. You may have lots of languages that people speak but the civilization has to be grounded in one language. So the civilizational language has to be a single language that's that has to be there. So for example if you look at Greek civilization which is small you had Greek you had various versions of Greek and other languages but you the main civilization language was Greek. In Chinese civilization you have the Hanchinese language. Of course in different parts of China they speak other languages too but Hanchinese is the civilizational language. In India it used to be Sanskrit. Of course in India you had all kinds of different languages that people spoke but the civilizational language was always Sanskrit. Uh next you need to have a large geographical area large geography. If it's a tiny little thing it's not a civilization. Right? Next you need to have a powerful economy a powerful military. You need to have high levels of prosperity. Without prosperity there is no civilization. Understand that. If you are living hand-to-mouth, if there is abject poverty everywhere, that is not a civilizational. You can never have high cultural values and all that in that sort of society which is reduced to abject poverty. You need to have high levels of prosperity. Next, you need to have a large sphere of economic, military and cultural influence that extends well beyond the borders of a civilization. Which means that a civilization has to be a next net net exporter of culture, not a net importer of culture. A civilization must have its own scripts of writing. A civilization needs to have its own calendar, its own system of timekeeping. It cannot use the calendar that somebody else gave it. It must have its own calendarrical system, its own system of timekeeping. So these are the characteristics of a civilization. Now, okay, there was All right. All right. Okay. I think we're back. Uh let me just see. Is there some lag? Is it frozen? Is the video frozen? Are you able to hear me all? It's interesting that at certain points in time. All good now. All good now. I think u yeah it seems to be back right. It's good now. So the point is I I think that I've laid out all the characteristics that a civilization needs to have. I did. So now I would like to ask you all is India is 21st century India today's India is it really a civilization? Right? For example, does India have its own does India have an institutionalized culture? Do India's laws are India's laws grounded in our indigenous culture and in our indigenous values? Are our institutions grounded in our culture and our values? Is India's constitution grounded in India's culture and India's indigenous values? Does India have an indigenous system of governance? H uh does India have a single civilizational language today? An indigenous civilizational language? Um does India have high levels of prosperity today? Is India a net exporter of culture today? Does India have its own scripts today? Does India have its own indigenous calendarrical system today? India today is not a civilization. India is a colonized culture today. So if if I keep on saying like I do that India is a civilization state, I am actually stretching the truth. I am giving it some kind of space-time warping. Yeah, that's the that's the truth in to be very honest, we are not a civilization today. Neither is China by the way. China is not an a civilization today. either it's it's an empire. It's trying to ape the US. China is trying to do whatever it takes to become the next US. The US is also an empire. India used to be a civilization until the middle of the 19th century. Today, we are a colonized nation even though the colonizers have left. That's the sad truth. But I'll keep saying that we are kind of kind of still a civilization state. can still revert to being a civilization state but we'll have to change a lot of things and the current system is such that it doesn't want to change things. Whoever is in power today they have come to power because of the kind of system that we have today. Do you think they will want to change the change the system? They will not want to change the system. They will want to keep the system the way it is. They will want to keep this nation colonized and that's the big problem. So where does the change come from is the big question. the way things are we will yeah we will nothing will change as of now right okay very pleasant thoughts isn't it okay okay this is a question that I was asked earlier but I kind of missed it so I'll take it nowan asked a couple of days ago if archers crushed heavy cavalry based armies at Cal and Ajankur why couldn't our archers Indian archers beat the cavalry based Turic armies. Interesting question. That's you know this is how you you learn how to think. You know how to think from first principles. This is how you actually should should uh you know study history by asking such questions. Here's something that happened in the west. Uh you have these wars between the the British and the French. and certain kinds of military tactics and strategies were used there and those worked brilliantly. So why couldn't we use such approaches here? We also had archers. We also faced invasions from foreigners which is the Turks. So if those tactics worked there, why couldn't those the same tactics be employed in India? Or did we employ those tactics? If we employ those tactics, why didn't they work? These are the questions, the kinds of questions you have to ask yourselves and that's how you actually learn things. You learn causality, the cause and effect chain. Okay. So, let's take this question. So, English archers, they defeated the French in Jakur in Calala and so on, right? And it worked really well. So, let's let's unpack this. These battles that used to take place between the English and the French in Europe, they typically were pitched battles. The two armed forces would come together, they'll find some place to fight and then they'll fight. Sometimes it would be ambushes and whatnot. But generally there were systematic ways of fighting. You would have the cavalry, you would have the knights with their heavy armor, you would have archers, you would have foot soldiers and so on so forth so forth. You would have pikemen, you would have guys with swords and so on. So every army had a certain set of components and you knew what the other army going to is going to have a certain number of knights who will charge with big lances and heavy armor on on armored horses. You'll have pikesmen. You'll have infantry with swords. You'll have archers and so on. Now so these were not very mobile forces. They would not run around and and wheel around in in at high speeds. They would essentially stand face to face and you would deploy various components of your armed forces into into the forward areas into battle phase by phase based on various tactics and strategies. You would have flanking maneuvers. You would have people in reserves hidden hidden somewhere in the forest who would come later. That sort of thing. You would try obviously to catch the opponent by surprise and defeat them. Now the English they had something called the long bow. L O N G long B O W bow long a bow. This these long bows were typically around six feet long. The size of a guy. I mean in those days Europeans were much shorter. So taller than a man. 6t tall bows made of a wood called u ye ew. It's a kind of tree. They're pretty very strong bows and you need to be you need needed to be really strong to be able to uh you know to unleash the arrows from that and you had pretty long arrows. So these were pretty innovative weapons. The French did not have this and you could uh shoot arrows much at to much longer distances than with regular crossbows or whatever. Crossbows are these little weapons that you hold in your in your hands. And you you know you you have crossbow bolts which are short arrows that you unleash from there. But long bows were like totally different weapons and the French did not have this. So the English used long bows in for example the battle of Ajang and they it is said that they unleashed they they they shot so many arrows it would darken the sky and the arrows would obviously you know take a parabolic kind of path and come back and they would devastate the the the opponent and the French did not have any answer to that. So this was kind of a technological innovation that the English came up with. Now these 6 ft long bows, they were not highly mobile. You needed to have let's say 500 guys, thousand guys, maybe 2,000 guys, 5,000 guys, whatever who were experts in using this this weapon. They would be stationed behind your troops and they would fire from behind. And by doing so, they would essentially shepherd the enemy in certain directions. If you if you launch the arrows in such a way that they they impact a certain part of the army, obviously the soldiers will move away. So you could make you could essentially shepherd the enemy soldiers into killing zones where your infantry and other other parts of the army would would dispatch them dispatch them to the next world essentially. So that's the kind of innovation the English came up with and uh yeah so that was the long bow and they they used to pluck the U that was the deal. So that is what the English used for a while and that gave them a super superb military advantage and they were able to win multiple battles essentially even decide the course of entire wars because of this technological innovation. So that's the long bow that's what the English used. Now coming to India. In India the battles that uh occurred between our defenders of those times 1100 1200 1300 AD which is essentially the Rajputs what we now call the Rajputs those those kingdoms against the Turks. The Turks were not like the French who would come with these heavily armored knights with lances with uh who would be mounted on heavily armored horses and they did not have pikesmen and all that. The Turks had very different battle strategies. They were very mobile. The Turks were nomads. They they were very comfortable in horses. Of course, they would also have infantry men. Um but their strategies were different and we did not have those long bows. Our our our soldiers from that time the Rajput armies they would have obviously archers they would also have swordsmen and all that. So it was not possible because of the the nature of the battles to carry these gigantic bows into battle with guys who would be stationary because the battles were highly mobile. The battles were highly mobile and that's why it was not really something that would work against the Turks. The Turks were used to archery. They they were very adept at uh you know uh have their tactics were to have archers on horseback and they would you know what's called what's it called the Parthion shot or whatever which is something the Mongols also used which is you know shooting backwards while your horse is charging this way you'll shoot backwards and so on. So the Turks already were pretty proficient with archery and because of the mobile nature of the Turk war fighting, it would not really have worked against them. And if you had, let's say, 5,000 mobile archers, well, the Turks could use tactics where eventually the archers run out of arrows and then they will be ripe for the slaughter. So it would not work because of the way of the nature of the battles that happened between the Rajputs and the Turks. So you know it all has to be contextual. You have to see what kind of opponent you have and you have to tailor your battle strategies and battle plans and tactics based on the nature of the opponent. If your opponent is not highly mobile, if they are used to pitch to battles, if they put all their armed forces in one place and deploy them, you know, face to the front, then you can decimate the rear using archers if they're not highly mobile and you can break the ranks. But if they're already highly mobile and uh in that case it won't really work. So because of the different nature of war could not really work in India. Amisha Mishra says who were the Seucids and which countries did the Seucid Empire control? Who were the Seucids? Okay. um we may all remember that uh Alexander the Greek attempted an invasion of India uh lasted about 2 3 years 327 to 325 BC right 2 3 years he attempted the invasion it was a disaster for him he went back uh and he died in Babylon what did he die of some say he died of malaria some say he died of poisoning some say he died of died of alcohol poisoning and some say that he may have died of wounds sustained in battle uh in India whatever it was he died young. So Alexander dies um somewhere in the 4th century BC and when he dies his son is he had this Indian or or Parththeian or what um Gandharan wife right her name was Roxana um so she was pregnant at the time Alexander died and she eventually gave birth to a son and that son was assassinated when he was a teen he never really took power so Alexander's line was ended did there and then his generals they fought among themselves for power for the control of the al of the empire that Alexander had won briefly. So he had a number of generals. It was this this war fighting between his generals was called the war of the diadeoki the war of the generals and the general who came out on top was Salucus Nictor. So Salucas dictator was able to defeat the the other generals and he became um he he founded this new empire. It is now called the Seucid Empire. So that's the Seucid Empire and he wanted to expand it as far as possible. So he went back eastwards. He came to the borders of India and he fought this brief war with the Morian Empire. It was less of a war and kind of hi I'm here let's shake hands. That sort of thing. it was you know I'm around Alexander is gone now it's me so let's let's come to some kind of understanding that's the kind of war it was it was not a very serious war it lasted a year or two and it ended with a an alliance between between India and the Greeks it is the Morian solucid treaty and it is said that Chandra Gupta Moria accepted Salucas's daughter as his wife and uh and to formalize this matrimonal alliance he uh as as as counter dowry or whatever he gave Salucas Nicator 500 war elephants and Salucas Nicar gave back some territories that he had usurped from India and that was the end of the war. It it was the beginning of an alliance that would last at least a couple of generations. And using those 500 war elephants, Salucas Negger went westwards and he was able to conquer an empire all the way to Syria and present day Israel. Huge empire, the whole of West Asia, all of Persia, all of Persia. Syria and also Israel. So all the way to the to the Mediterranean Sea from the borders of India all the way to the Mediterranean Sea. That's how big his empire was. It included present day Persia. It included uh Syria, Jordan, uh present day Iraq, uh Kuwait, and all those other places. Not quite the Arabian Peninsula, not quite that, but all the way to present day Israel and the shores of the eastern Mediterranean Sea. That's how large this empire was. And it lasted eventually the Salucid Empire also disintegrated as all empires do. Silucus nicer dies. His son becomes the emperor. He also maintains good relations with with India. And then he has descendants and those descendants turn out to be not that great as always. And eventually the the Armenian Empire takes bites out of the Seucid Empire and uh various other kingdoms start taking bites out of it. And eventually the Romans defeat the Saluced Empire because the Romans by the time had had conquered Greece and they had uh extended their their rule all the way up to Judea which is Israel and they eventually destroyed the Seucid Empire. So that was the deal. That's how it ended and it was at one point in time a pretty large empire all the way from the western borders of India the India Iran border including Iran all the way to the eastern Mediterranean Sea. pretty big big empire ro a couple of questions here by real Vladimir Putin and Shub. How did kings Ashok and Kaneshka spread Indian culture? Shou says how did emperors like Ashoka the great and Keshka the great spread Indian culture and to what extent did they spread Indian culture? Okay, so Ashok obviously comes first. Kaneshka comes a few centuries later. Ashoke was uh the great unifier of the subcontinent. The grandson of uh emperor Chandra Gupta Moria. Ashoke may or may not have personally known Shar Vishnu Gupta Chanaka. Possibly as a child you may have known him but Ashoke took the empire to its greatest extent. He unified the entire subcontinent and kind of you know it was it was a gigantic empire and a pretty stable empire hugely prosperous empire strict iron control of the empire no tolerance for any nonsense nothing okay and that's how empires have to be run so Ashok was fantastic was brilliant he's rightfully called Ashok the great personally he may have been a cruel guy or whatever that's okay I don't care so he did a brilliant job of unifying the subcontinent and And after the entire business of fighting and defeating all the various uh rebels or whatever after defeating everybody who could have challenged him then he became a peaceful guy and he started spreading dharma. So at the time you had Buddhism all over India about the dharma. So he became a great patron of both the dharma. He did great public works and he sent embassies to various parts of the world. He sent uh embassies to Greece and the embassies would include large numbers of uh you know uh bikus and priests and all who would spread our culture to those parts of the world. So um so Ashoke says that he had spread dharma to to Greece which means he would have sent embassies with with religious scholars to Greece. He also um sent embassies to Sri Lanka. his two of his children, Mahendra and uh what was the the girl's name? His daughter's name, Ashok's daughter, what was her name? The the the son's name was Mahendra. Okay, I forget the girl's name, his daughter's name. But those two siblings, children of Ashok, they went to Sri Lanka and they brought with them uh a sapling that was derived from the original Bodhi tree. It was planted in Sri Lanka. It still exists today. The same tree sangra Mahindra and Sangapitra they were they were the two children. He had many children but two of those were Mahindra and Sangapitra. They went to Sri Lanka and they spread dhamad and Sri Lanka till today is mainly mostly Buddhist right it's a Buddhist maj majority country. Ashok also spread Dharma to Surabumi which is Thailand and uh mostly Thailand and Southeast Asia. uh so he did all he could to spread our culture far and wide all across the neighboring uh parts of the world. So that's what Ashok did and he also you know funded and financed the construction of all kinds of temples and monasteries and viharas and mahavir biharas and whatever else he could do. He was a very generous king and he was a great patron of our culture and he did his best to spread our culture beyond the physical boundaries of the Indian subcontinent. So there is Ashok Kaneshka. What about Kaneshka? So Kaneshka was a descendant of immigrants. He was a descendant of Tushara kings. The Tusharas were the Tokari in English they called the Tokarians. They lived in the Sinjang region, the Tarin basin region. That's where they originated as far as we know. Obviously, they would have originated somewhere else beyond that. How did they arrive in Singinjang? We're not quite sure. But you still find mummies of these people there in the Tarim Basin region. They are called the Tarim Basin mummies or something. And if you look at the the mummies, they are white-kinned and they generally have blonde or red hair. But their genetics are R1 A1A, the male genetics, which is exactly the same as most Indians. So, interesting thing. Um and the tokaran language was a satam sentum language not the satim language which is like two divisions of the indo-uropean language family and the gods they worshiped the tokarans were our gods so very interesting combination so those are the origins of the tushara people the kusans eventually the Chinese called them the UAE and eventually they came to be known as the Kushans so the Kushans had to flee from the Hunik expansion which came out of Mongolia and flee. By fleeing they had to displace the the skitians from wherever they were and they eventually the Kosans eventually started settling down in in the northwestern parts of the subcontinent and u they expanded their kingdom gradually by displacing the Indo- Greeks and eventually you have the birth of Kaneshka who went on to be the greatest of the emperors of the Kushan Empire and one of our greatest emperors ever and his empire encompassed much of northern western India parts of Deaken also he had two capitals. One was Matura, one was Purushpur which is present day Peshawar and uh through through Matura he he he was able to administer the Indian subcontinent all of it whatever parts he controlled which was the majority of it and through Peshawar he was able through push pushpour he was able to administer uh central Asia. So understand the the size of Ganeshka's empire. The maps that you will see they will not tell you the entire story. He he had um he he ruled over northern, western, central India all the way up to Patutra. Patutra was part of his empire. So eastern India as well. Not sure about Assam and the far east states of India today. Not definitely not southern India but all of that part of India and Kashmir. He was very fond of Kashmir. Kaneshka was was in love with Kashmir for some reason. There is a there is a town called Kaneshkapur in Kashmir. It is called Kaneshpur or something today. So he he was in love with Kashmir for some reason. Kaneska maybe he spent his childhood there. I'm not really sure. And he his empire also stretched from the shores of the Caspian and Arali all the way to Shinjang present day Singinjang in in currently part of China gigantic empire. And through that he because of that he controlled all the trade between India and China in the east and Rome in the west. He controlled all of that. He was the middleman. He took taxes for both ways and he became his empire became enormously rich as a consequence which is our land became enormously rich rich as a consequence. Um and he was a great patron of culture. Dur during his rule two different schools of culture essentially thrived in the subcontinent. One is the Matura school of arts. the Matura style of of sculptures very unique and distinctive style the Matura style uh that's one and the other one is the Gandhara style the the depictions of Buddh buddha in the helenistic fashion the Gandhara style so two very different schools of art they thrived during the time of kaneshka and he obviously was the was the patron of all of that he gave uh whatever funding financing was needed for all for all of this he was obviously enormously wealthy. His empire was incredibly wealthy and he patronized all the different religious manifestations that existed in India and central Asia. Whether it is the both the dharma, whether it is the shvite dharm, whether it is the vehnawad dharm, whether it is zorastrinism, whether it's whatever he was the the he was the patron of everything. Okay. He he encouraged all all these different uh manifestations of of dharma or whatever it is. And obviously at that time still Buddhism both the dharma was still the ma the major uh dharmic form that was prevalent in the subcontinent. So uh he was that's why he was also a big patron of of what we call Buddhism today. And he used to send embassies he see his empire was a trading empire. He also controlled the great ports in Sawashtra in western India that traded with Rome. So whenever he would send a trade delegation wherever he made sure that he would send religious persons with with those people essentially religious gurus and teachers and whatnot. It may not have been that successful in the west because the west never became Indianized. Rome never became Indianized. Right? You do find you do find examples of of Indian um Indian contact over there. For example, the Lakshmi of Herculanium. So you do find archaeological evidence of the presence of Indians in Rome. But Rome never adopted Indian religion. Maybe it was just too far away. But he sent all these trade delegations and embassies to China. And through those he he sent dharmic gurus uh both the big shows and both the scholars and people who would be learned in the Vedas and whatnot. And because of Kaneshka's activities, the whole of China eventually became Indianized. Kaneshka is the man who did that. Kaneshka. And through China, it spread to Korea, it spread to Japan, it spread wherever else, Mongolia, wherever else. So, Kaneshka is the man who was instrumental in Indianizing the whole of East Asia. Tremendous. I mean, the kind of work he did tireless and tremendous. He was in power for like 20 30 years. That's it. And then he we don't know what happened. He died and his son Huishka became the emperor. So, Kaneshka was this guy super vigorous guy. His entire life was like expans expanding his empire defeating one guy after the other. He even defeated the Parththeians and took some of bites of the territory because why not that thing but apart from the the expansionist tendencies that he have that he had he was this great great patron of culture and he was this great spreader of Indian culture especially eastwards and through the actions of one man the whole of China essentially became Indianized over time but he is the guy who started all of that and then after after his death and even after the dissolution of the of the Kushan Empire the Chinese used to send embassies to India to the Gupta emperors asking for more scholars. Please send us more scholars with more Sanskrit sutras that they can translate into Chinese. So the this entire process was started by Kaneshka great man uh one of our greatest emperors ever if not our greatest emperor. So some people said that Kaneshka was was a foreigner. He was a descendant of immigrants. I mean what what was his culture? What did he do? Whose culture did he did he promote? Whose culture did he spread the worldwide? our culture right did he see himself as a foreigner really if he saw himself as a foreigner would he do that I don't care what what blood you may have the anywhere the Kushans the tusharas were of Indian ancestry they themselves in in tarim in the tarim region river region they used to practice our culture there itself right uh so yeah I don't see kaneshka as as a foreigner what utter nonsense utter nonsense kanka was one of the one of the greatest Indians of all time Okay. Uh, Shub says, "Please tell us about the Mitani dynasty and its role in debunking the ar picnic theory." Uh, the Mitani dynasty, the Mitani Empire. U so there is in Syria there are all these archaeological sites. Okay. In the 20th century, there were with these western archaeologists who were excavating uh what was it? Was it Hatusa? Maybe a place called Hatusa. Um which was one of the major sites, one of the major cities of the Mitani Empire possibly and they were excavating. And they found very stone tablets and they they deciphered the stone tablets and it gave them the shock of their life because it was a peace treaty between the Mitani and the neighboring kingdom, the Hurans. I believe the Mitani and the the Hittites, the Mitani kingdom and the Hittite kingdom. A peace treaty. It was in the Huran language. But when you do a peace treaty, you have you need to have great divine witnesses, right? That this treaty is blessed by the gods and so on. So as the divine witnesses, you had the names of Mitra, Vuna, Indra, all that. So there was the shock of their life. I mean they this is a peace treaty between the Hittites and the Mitani in in one of the major cities of the Mitan Mitani. And you have this treaty being blessed by the the Aryan gods Mitra, Vuna, Indra, etc. So, how on earth is that possible? Then they they did more more excavations and they found this horse trading manual, a horse trading manual, a manual for how to take a regular horse and train that horse into a war horse that can fight battles. It's a it's a stepbystep what multiple monthlong manual that on day one you do this with your horse. Day two you do that each day exactly what to do, what to feed the horse, how many uh circles of the of the the of the racetrack he should take, what what he should drink, what what he know he should not eat the horse and exactly day by day it's a breakdown of how how to convert a standard regular horse into a war horse, a horse breeding manual in the Huran language. But once again when you deciphered that there are certain shocking things because the Huran language did not have specific terminology spec words for specific scientific terms. So the guy who wrote this training manual his name was Kikuli Kikuli the mitani he had to introduce terms in a foreign language for those technical terms. Navana nine rounds of the racecourse of the horse track right Navana and and various other Sanskrit terms he had to use because those terms did not exist in the Mitani language. So a whole bunch of Sanskrit terms are used in this Huran language horse training manual by Kikuli the Mitani. So Kikuli tried his best to write this horse trading manual in the local language but some words did not exist. That's why he had to use his own language for those scientific terms for those technical terms. So once again you have a guy who was a high status horse trainer who was using Sanskrit terms because the terms do not exist exist in this language. So eventually it became clear that the Mitani Empire was it was located in Anatolia and Syria but its elite were Sanskrit speakers and Hindus essentially Indo-arians Indians arians right so the aristocracy and the royalty was Indo-arian but the common people were the Horeian speaking local uh local people so that was the Mitani Empire And they had kings who had proper Sanskrit names Tesha, Rata and whatever the names are. And these kings also had extensive diplomatic correspondence with the Egyptian pharaohs. There is something called the Amara letters in which you have multiple letters that are sent by the king of the Mitani to the king of the Egyptians and there's this back and forth between the king the two kings and then the the pharaoh dies. So the Mitani kings sends a letter to the widow of the pharaoh continuing the correspondence and then the widow's son becomes the next king. So he continues the correspondence with the next king that sort of thing. So this was an big empire very strong powerful empire very rich empire it was ruled by Indoarians by people of Indian ancestry and if you look at the Sanskrit terminology that is used it is late vic is not rigidic it is late vic terminology. So how did this happen? Does does it mean that these were the Arians who then invaded India? Does it mean that? Does it really mean that? Uh no, not quite. These were and and at the same time where you have the emergence of this Hit Mitani Empire and the next door you had the Hittites who also had an Indian aristocracy, an Indian ruling class, right? Mitani Kingdom, Hittite Kingdom both have local people who speak local languages. But the ruling class, the royalty is Indian in both cases. Right? And this is about 1,500 BC. About 3 and a half thousand years before today. About 500 years before that, before the emergence of the of the Mitani Kingdom Empire, 500 years before the emergence of the Mitani Empire, you have the sudden introgression of a specific animal into West Asia. What is that animal? It is the Indian zebu cattle. The cattle with the big humps, big humped cattle which you see in the Indas Saraswati region, seals, those big bulls with the big humps, those cattle suddenly emerged, suddenly appeared in West Asia. 500 or so years before the emergence of the Mitanian Hittite empires and that's that's around 2,000 BC that the cattle appear in West Asia. At the same time, these cattle also appear in Egypt. So cattle Indian origin cattle which which originated in India nobody can disprove that this is a fact the zebu cattle originated in the subcontinent and cattle were domesticated cattle don't decide one morning okay let's go to let us let us uh go to a m do a migration we will go to west Asia cattle don't decide that cattle do whatever their masters tell them so this indicates that Indians traveled to west Asia around 200 BC with cattle and settle And eventually you had the rise of these empires, Mitani and Hittite empires. This is out of India migrations thousands of kilometers west of India. Now is this attested in um in Indian literature. There is a late Vic text called the Bodhana Sutra. Bodhyana Sutra. Let's let's Wikipedia, shall we? Let's Google it. What does Wikipedia have to say about the Baana Sutra? What does it have to say? Let's see. Bodhaana Sutra. There we have it. Religious text, right? What does Wikipedia have to say? It's a late Vic text dealing with blah blah blah composed in Eastern Utar Pradesh because they know exactly where it was composed, right? These geniuses. Uh what does it say? Bodhana wrote the sutra. Okay. Kvas school whitewa and so on. Um etc. translation controversy. According to Michael Vitzel, this genius here, German American philologist, Indologist, according to this genius, some passages in this uh sutra point to the Indo-arian migrations, no longer invasion, now they're saying migrations. And uh so he essentially translated mistransated this saying that Amawasu went eastwards not Aayou it is Amawasu okay but he del and Rmula Tapar also supported what he says but if you know anything about Sanskrit you will realize that it is not eastwards it's a westward migration that he's talking about okay so it says that Amawasu migrated westwards and his people are the Arata, the Gandhara and the somebody else. So Arata we don't know but Gandhara we clearly know yeah the Gandhara the Para and in the Arata these are the people of Amavasu according to this text the Gandhara people obviously it's Gandhara obviously it's it's right here northwest India Afghanistan that's Gandhar everyone knows what that is Pu Pashu people Paru people Persia obviously Arata could be Armenia Mount Ararat perhaps we don't know for sure but clearly this is evidence of a westward migration of ancient Indians during the late Vic age whenever it happened. We don't know quite when it happened. They say it's 10,000 BC or something which is nonsense. So these people Michael Witzel and whatever they have been trying to obiscate history. They've been trying to say that you know these are this is evidence of eastward migration which is a lie. It was a westward migration that was referenced in it. So if you put all these different pieces of evidence together you can see that there were migrations of India which were recorded in literature and these migrations went westwards. Uh and yeah, so this obviously pokes gigantic holes in this Arian invasion/migration theory that these people love so much. Amisha says, "Why did Burma stay Buddhist and reject Christianity and Islam if European Christian min missionaries were successful in Eastern India?" Interesting question. Um first of all we have to ask ourselves ask ourselves when did this Christian missionary start becoming successful in eastern India when we talk about eastern India we're talking about far east right now which is what what most people think of as the northeast of India it's the far east of India it's not the northeast geographically so when did the Christian missionaries become start becoming successful in the far east of India in the 20th century uh if you look at 1900 for example there were hardly any convert converted Christians in India's far east even in Nagaland by 1940 there may be some Nagas who were converted to Christianity but by 2000 most Nagas are converted to Christianity that their indigenous culture has been destroyed and uh now they are going after Arunachal Pradesh they're trying to destroy whatever is left of Manipur and Misoram is whatever it is so this process happened during the 20th century it intensified after 1947 because of Nehu because of the magnificent Mr. Neu who said that we have to convert northeast to Christianity to civilize it because according to Mr. and a Christianity is civilized and anything else is not. So, so this is something that happened mainly in the 20th century. And when we're talking about India's far east, across the border we have Burma. Did the the Christian missionaries try the same in Burma? They did. They tried this all across Southeast Asia. Before we deal with Burma, let me talk about Vietnam. Okay, let's let's briefly talk about Vietnam. See the Christian missionaries they always go after isolated population groups, tribal population groups who are not part of the mainstream because people who are in the mainstream in in East Southeast Asia and India they they are civilizationally very strongly rooted. For example, Vietnam, Southeast Asia, there have been there is Hinduism, Buddhism that goes back at least 2,000 years. People are very deeply rooted in this. And if you if you bring a foreign religion like an Abrahamic monotheistic religion, these people will laugh at you in your face. What the hell are you trying to trying to foist on us? We don't need this. That's what they will say. So the the missionaries decided not to target the the the Buddhist practitioners and Hindu practitioners. They went after tri isolated tribal communities who were easier to to to convert, who were easy to impress. The the the people of Southeast Asia or India initially would have seen the Europeans as inferior, coming from an inferior culture. You may be great at violence and ruling, but your culture is inferior. That's what that's how we would have seen them. But people who lived in isolation, they would have thought of these people as gods. So they were the they were easy to convert. So for example, if you go to Vietnam, you have a people called the Mana which is the mountain people in French Vietnam mot. So the Mana people is an umbrella term for the various indigenous peoples of the central highlands of Vietnam. You know once again they use the term indigenous people to to imply that the other people of Vietnam are are somehow invaders or something. Yeah. Anyhow, so you have all these uh various ethnic groups and they have been used uh to fight various civil wars and whatn not. Okay. And if you see you will find that lots of these people these isolated people were converted to Christianity. For example, Catholic church, Catholic church, Motanyak churches, churches, churches all that you can see there's a lot of that. What is the evang evangelical church of Vietnam? Uh Protestants are a minority in Vietnam constituting 1% of the population. But it is the country's fastest growing religion now. It's growing at 600% per year in the early 2000s and once again the growth of Protestantism has been most dramatic among ethnic minority peoples like the Mana etc. So that's the game the the missionaries play. Now when it comes to when it comes to Burma okay let's see Burma religious demographics. Okay, let's see what is the percentage of Christianity is 6.2%. It is not small. It is not small. Right now, let's see where is Christianity more widespread. Chin state, Kachin state, Kaya state. Where is Chin state by the way? Shall we shall we find out where is Chin state? Let's see. It is the region that is right next to Manipur and Misoram. It is where the cookies are infiltrating into India from. There you have 85% Christianity. Please understand the patterns. It all adds up slowly. So even if you go to places like Laos, Vietnam, the missionaries always targeted these these people who who lived in isolation who lived in the hills in the mountains. Chin state is full of hills and mountains in Burma. So you go and target those people. You convert them to Christianity. And then you slowly spread that over time. You can the missionaries are happy to wait decades even centuries for this to spread slowly. So now in Burma Christianity is about 6%. In Kachin state Chin state is about 85%. Chin state is right next to Manipur. Manipur is a small Hindu majority region. Only the central part of Manipur the the valley part of Manipur is Hindu majority. Even there the indigenous people are now being converted to Christianity. So slowly they want to take everything over. So that is the deal. Understand the patterns, understand how it has happened over time. This I can make I can do a two-hour episode actually about this but it is best I don't know don't do that. Okay. Yajj Navalia says, "Historically, what are the mechanics and dynamics of elite imposition of if any of a language of a tiny u ruling minority on a large population consist composed mainly of illiterate farmers. Here imposition is intended to mean complete change of the population's mother tongue. Okay. Elite imposition. You have a tiny ruling minority. You have a large population who are mainly farmers or whatever illiterate and how does it happen? Is it even possible for this to happen? Is is is it possible for a tiny majority ruling majority a tiny ruling minority to completely change the language over time of a large population? Interesting question for okay let's take some case studies. We discussed the Mitani just now. The Mitani Empire 1500 BC to about 1200 BC around that time give or take roughly. So you have the Mitani Empire and and the the majority population is the locals who speak the Huran language and the ruling class the royalty and aristocracy they speak Sanskrit. They come from they came from India. So you've got a tiny ruling majority who speaks Sanskrit and practices Hinduism and they are ruling over a huran speaking group of people. What happened eventually? Sanskrit never became the mainstream language in Mitani society. It never did but some cultural influences persisted even after the dissolution of the Mitani Empire. So it's because of the kind of religion and culture India has that even if they've went and conquered this foreign land and ruled over it, they never sought to impose their culture on the locals. They never tried. Kikuli the the horse trainer wrote a manual not in Sanskrit but in the Huran language. He only introduced a few words in Sanskrit. Sanskrit which did not exist in the Huran language. So he tried his best to adapt himself to the culture of the locals. Um but when you had a peace treaty between two kingdoms that were ruled by Indians there it's there there you had the the invocation of the the the Vic deities Indra Mitrauna etc. But the Mitani rulers never tried to impose their Sanskrit language and their Hindu religion on the locals. They never did that because otherwise this whole region would have been Hindu, Hinduized. You don't see that. It never happened. Um but you do find some hymns that were written in the Huran language that have the same same rhythmic pattern as Sanskrit as as rigidic verses. So somehow the culture kind of remained behind and huran religious hymns took on the the meter and and uh rhythmic patterns of rigidic verses. So it kind of had this effect but it was never done by force. So here you will see an example of a ruling class that did not impose anything by force. That's one example. Second, let's take Anatolia, which is again the same region that the Hurans that the Mitani ruled, right? Anatolia, which is eastern Turkey. The 90% of Turkey is Anatolia, which is also called Asiatic Turkey. It used to be Greek in the past. So, Anatolia in the second millennium AD, the Turks invaded Anatolia, which was mostly which was an entirely Greek and Armenian land. So the local population was Greeks and Armenians. At that time they were Christians. So the Turks invade and you have the Byzantine Empire there. The Turks over the centuries over over a couple of centuries they destroy the Byzantine Empire and eventually they create this Ottoman Empire and the subjects are Greeks and Armenians. And if you look at the region today, everyone speaks Turkish, everyone is Muslim. What happened there? It was imposed by force. imposed by force. This was done forcibly. The language was imposed by force. The religion was imposed by force. And they had this practice of abducting women and marrying them to their men. And that's how the entire genetics all that changed. And today, if you look at the Turkish people, the the average Turkish person would have about 95% Greek or Armenian genetics. Hardly 5% at most Turk genetics, but culturally they're entirely Turk. So this was done through the sword. So the Indians who ruled the region Anatolia as part of the as the rulers of the Mitani Empire and Hittite Empire, they never did that. They chose not to do that. It was a cultural choice. We don't it's not part of our culture to to force somebody to to to change their way of life. The Turks, they said it's part of our culture and we're going to do it to you. So So it's done by force. If it happens, it is only because it is done by force. Uh similarly Egypt, it used to speak the Egyptian language. I mean the people of Egypt spoke the Egyptian language. They had their own culture, their own religion. Today if you go to Egypt, they consider themselves to be Arabs. They speak the Arabic language. And there is not a shred of original Egyptian culture or language that survives. How did this happen? Through force, through the sword. Let's come to India. You had the British in India, right? The British ruled India. First you had the Turks. Let's let's talk about the British. So the British ruled India for two and a half centuries. They left in 1947 so to say today if you look at India uh their religion is kind of growing in India now the British the Christianity is growing in India uh because of a tremendous influx of money and so on and India's official language is kind of English now because of our our colonized leaders have continued those British practices. So how did English became the main become the main language of India? How did English become the mainstream language of India? Today if you want to have a good job that pays you a few lakhs a month, you need to speak really good English. They won't even tolerate you in the interview room if you don't speak decent enough English. You will never get a high paying job in India if you don't speak high quality English. That's what's been done to India today. Right? It's English a path essentially. How did this happen? It's first of all the British destroyed the Indian education system. That's one of the things the mechanics and dynamics. They destroyed the Indian Indian education system. They disestablished the Indian education system. They de-industrialized India and popularized India. And then they ensure that any job if you want to have which will give you a decent monthly income so that you survive, it can only come through the government, the British Indian government. And for that you have to be educated through the British imposed education system which was all about learning the English language and having good handwriting and being completely obedient. And that's how they they did this and this has been continued through the 20th century even now in the 21st century. So it's it's brainwashed generations of Indians into into having certain mindset a certain kind of mindset a slave mindset a mindset of this this deep inferiority complex and this belief that English is a superior language. Right now Sridar Wambbu and Zoho have come up with this new app, right? It's called Aratay. It's a messaging app. If you go on Twitter today, you have all these genius Indians who are saying that we need to change the name of Aratai. It has to be something that the West will understand. These these are these Indians are are are brilliant examples of inferiority complex ridden mentally colonized people. And it's not regular Indians who are saying this. It's very prominent people who are saying this that Aratai needs to be renamed to something the world will understand idiots. So this is how it happens you see. Okay. Hy penguin says how come the Romans could not conquer Gmana Magna easily considering the region was noti was not united and the local tribes would fight each other all the time. Similarly why did the Chinese not conquer the Mongol tribes before Chingishan happened and why did they let Chingan unite the tribes? Why did the both these powers like the Romans and the Chinese choose to engineer fights between the tribes but could not conquer the tribes? Why engineer fights among them? Why not just conquer the land and rule the land? Well, there has to be something worthwhile in the land to conquer. Let's go to the map. We'll talk about Gmana Magnda first. What is Gmana Magda? It's the present day land of Germany. Okay. What's called Germany today? Where did the name Germany come from? It came from Germania Latin. Gmania magnum means great Germany. So we're talking about Germany. Essentially Germany is a newly formed artificial nation. By the way, it was formed in 1871. Before that there was no Germany. So this region is what the Romans called Gmana Magna. Switzerland was part of what they called Gaul. North and east of Gaul you had Gmana. Gmana Magna. Now see the the Romans conquered the whole of Gaul which is France and Switzerland. Why did they conquer it? It was full of fertile land, great agricultural land. The Gaul had had a large population and you could make the population work. You could make them do agriculture. You could collect great amounts of taxes from them and you could you could you know bring them into the armed forces or use them as slaves. So and so many other uses for these people in their land. So the entire land of France which was called Gaul and Switzerland, it was very valuable for Rome. It was a source of great riches. So was Iberia. Very valuable land. Tremendous riches from there. They also got a lot of gold gold the metal from uh from Iberia. But when it comes to Gmania, Germany, it was this land that was full of forests, a heavily forested land. You had forests all over the place. You had hills all over the place. And you had small population groups, tribes that were scattered all over the place. There were no great resources available in Germany. Swampy marshy terrain, streams and rivers all over the place, hills everywhere and forests and wild people living in small tribal groups. How do you conquer these people? You go and attack them. They will just disperse into the forest for months disappear. What do you do? How do you conquer them? And there are no big cities, not even towns, just scattered villages. And there is there are no resources there that can make your empire rich. It will cost you way more to administer the land than so it's it's and and you will get nothing out of it. So it is a net negative for the empire to to conquer and administer the administer the land first of all can't be conquered unless you deforest the whole land which is which will take so much manpower and so much time why do that right so that's why they never bothered to conquer gab they tried a few times and then they realized it's it's not worth our time right and of course they did face some setbacks like uh the battle of Tutubberg forest which was one of the few times the Germanic tribes united under Armenius who was a German but who who had been who who who had learned the Roman ways because they lived in Rome for a while. So that's that was in 10 AD or something the battle of Tutubberg forest and there was a disaster for Rome. But eventually so what the Romans decided that is that we will not conquer the land. We will not administrate. We'll just keep them fighting each other so that they don't become a nuisance for us. Keep them divided. Keep them fighting each other. Let it go on and we will just uh you know ensure that they don't spill over into the territories we control. So it did not make sense for them to conquer this land and administer it because they would get nothing out of it. If you don't have a population of several millions, how do you collect taxes, if you are not getting taxes, then you're spending more on ad on on administration and you lose soldiers here and there? It's not worth your time. That's why they did not bother to conquer Gmana Magna. They gave up eventually. They said, "It's not worth our time. It's not worth the headache." That's why Rome said, "Okay, we don't need Gmana Magna." Now, similarly, why did the Chinese not conquer the Mongol tribes? Once again, Mongolia's population was what? A million, 2 million? Spread across a gigantic territory. Population density next to nothing. Nothing. What could you What could the Chinese get out of Mongolia? What resources? Would they get gold? Would they get timber? Would they get something of value? Nothing. It's empty land from from a Chinese perspective, from a Mongol perspective, it's their sacred homeland. And they knew how to live in in in that land. They knew how to how to subsist of the land. For the Chinese, there was nothing of value in Mongolia. Nothing at all. So why why bother to conquer the land? It'll take so much time, resources, energy, effort, and money to administer the land which is empty. And the tribes once again will disperse whenever they when whenever they are challenged. They'll dis disperse and disappear for weeks or months. And then they will come back and and again attack you. guerrilla tactics, ambush tactics. Why waste your time over that? It's not worth your time. That's why the Chinese decided that we will not conquer Mongolia. We will simply keep the Mongols fighting each other. Okay? And that's why they had this policy for centuries. Sow division among the Mongols. Keep them fighting each other. Keep punishing them from time to time with punitive raids. Capture their leaders, execute them, torture them, whatever. do it from time to time to to send the message to the Mongols that China is not to be messed with. You stay in your land and the Chinese would keep them fighting each other. They would send one ambassador to one tribe, another to to a different tribe and create enmity, create hostility. Then you have to play the politics and that's how the Mongolians kept fighting each other for centuries. Now why did the Chinese allow Chingaskhan to unite to unite the tribes? This unification of the tribes happened over a very short period of time. 20 years before the Chinese knew anything. It had happened 20 years is a very short period of time. Actually speaking, geopolitically speaking, the Chinese always had this conception that the Mongols are a bunch of rag tag idiots. We know how to deal with them. We'll keep them we'll keep them fighting each other. We have ambassadors here and there and we'll just keep it going. They had no idea that in a short period of 20 years Mongolia will turn into a ginormous beast and and essentially eat China alive. So it happened before they realized what was happening. One fine day the Mongols turn up at your doorstep and then what do you do? That's what happened. Yajjnalia says, "Did the religion founded by the prophet Zaratustra have an influence on the theology of the second temple Judaism during the time of the Aimeirate Empire's rule over Babylonia, Judea and Israel?" Okay. So, you had the first temple that was founded by Solomon, the temple of Solomon, right? Uh Solomon lived around 900 AD, 900 BC or thereabouts, somewhere around that time. And he had built this big temple. Uh and then the Jews uh they were conquered by Nabuku Kudrachar of Babylon. What what did I say? Nabuku Kudrachar. What is that? Nabuked Nazar is what the British or the English like to call him. Let's Google this. Nebu Nazar II. So if you Google the guy's name, it will say Nebuchadnezzar. See Nabu Kadnazar. Nabu Kadnazar. His actual name was Nabu Nabu Kudrachar. That's what the Persians called him. Nabu Kudrachar. But the the British the English have to call him Nabukad Nazar because you have to mangle all indigenous names. Right. Anyhow, Nabukudrachar II was the great ruler of Babylon, okay, of the Babylonian dynasty. And he had conquered Judea. He had conquered the Jewish lands. When did this happen? 597 BC. 589 BC. Around that time, there were two two conquests. And after the second conquest, Nabukuar enslaved a large number of the Juda Jewish people and brought them to Babylon as captives. And this captivity lasted at least 50 years around 50 years around 50 years. So the Jews had to live in Babylonia and they wrote this great uh this this great passage right by the rivers of Babylon. We remember Zion or something like that. And there's this uh pop band called Bony M. Bony M that converted that into a pop song by the rivers of Babylon. We remembered Zion or something like that. So for 50 years the Jews were in captivity in Babylon and in other parts of the Babylon Babylonian Empire. Um and yeah that was a deal. So Nabu Kudrachar was this great evil Babylonian king who did that. Now eventually Nabu Kudrachar was defeated by Kurush the great Persian emperor and Kurush def Cyrus Cyrus the great you want to use a Greek name Cyrus the great his name his actual name was Kurush so Kurush defeated Namukur he took over the Babylonian Empire he freed the Jews and gave them permission to go back to Judea so they go back to Judea and Judea by this time is part of the Persian Empire also because he has conquered all of that. So the Jews are finally able to return to Judea and uh they obviously see Kurush as a great benefactor as a great generous benevolent king and they became influenced by the religion that Kurush practiced which was Zaratustra's religion a quasi inversion of the Vic religion right that's what Zeratustra practiced so um that's what Kurush practiced so the Jews Judaism is obviously a monotheistic religion it's the original monotheist istic religion, the original Abrahamic religion and this became influenced by the various elements of Zoroastrianism. For example, Zoroastrianism is a polytheistic religion. First of all, today many Zoroastrians themselves believe it's a monotheistic religion which is a lie. Zoroastrianism has this concept of a supreme deity called Aurora Mazda. And there is this shadow deity, the mirror opposite of aurora mazda. There is Angramanu. That's that's the evil one, right? So you have a good versus bad duality in Zorastrianism. But you also have other divinities like the Yazatas. You also have the das who are the bad guys now and and so on. So you've got these multiple levels of divinities in Zoroastrianism. The Jews, they took some of those concepts, those polytheistic concepts, but they converted those into monotheistic concepts. The Yazatas, they were these divinities, the these gods, they were converted into the angels of Judaism. Angels. So the angels are not gods. They are beings with some aspect of divinity given bestowed upon them by the great great uh Yahweh. Yah, right? So they took that from Zorastanism, the concept of these secondary gods, but they converted those into angels. So we only have one god. We only believe in one god. And these angels are are beings that god has blessed with certain extra powers, but they're not gods. So we are still monotheistic, but they they borrowed that from zorostrinism. Secondly, the concept of paradise. So the word paradise apparently has a Persian origin. It means a walled garden of kind of sorts something like that. So apparently even this concept has been taken from Zoroastinism. I'm not I'm not sure if Zoroastinism has this concept of paradise. I'm not sure about that. But they took this word paradise from the Persian language and they they said that you know after death uh you go to paradise or you go to hell that sort of thing. So some of these concepts have been taken from Zoroastrianism but they have been incorporated into a monotheistic religion Judaism. So yeah, there is definitely a Zoroastrian influence on u on Judaism, right? Amisha says, "In what ways were the Vissigotss and the Ostrogoths different? And what was the relationship of the Vissigotss to ancient Rome?" Interesting question. The Vissigotss and the Ostrogoths. First of all, both these names, the Vissigotss and the Ostrogoths, it has a common term, Goths. Who are the Goths? The Goths were a Germanic people who originally lived in Eastern Europe. So, let's uh go to Google. They essentially lived in parts of Ukraine and Eastern Europe. So let's Google this uh Gothic people original homeland. Original homeland of the Gothic people Scandinavia. They originated in Scandinavia but they used to live in Eastern Europe. Okay. Here we have it. The Gothic people. This was their homeland. As you can see they originated somewhere in Scandinavia but they lived in Eastern Europe. the Ukraine region and so on. Uh yeah, so they originally came from Scandinavia. They came down south and eventually they lived in uh present day Ukraine, Romania, all of that. Okay. So they were living there in the 3rd century AD roughly, let's say. So the gods live in in the Ukraine region, Eastern European region around 3rd century AD. Then you have a Hunic invasion of Europe. Huns. Who are these Huns? The same Hoons who were invading India at the time. The same Hoons they ruled Central Asia and the step region of Europe and all that. And they wanted their motto was we should rule the world. If we can we should, right? We are well organized. We are barbaric. We can tolerate any hardship. We should rule the world. So they were trying to invade India and Rome at the Rome at the same time. The Huns. The Houns eventually founded something called Hungary. H U N G R Y Hungary. So the Huns they they uh invaded Europe. The invasion began around this time. So the Gothic people who were living in Ukraine and Romania, the eastern parts of Europe. They they're like, "Where do we go now? The Hoons are too barbaric, too powerful. They will destroy us." So they started knocking on the doors of the Roman Empire. Please let us in. Please, we have to we have to we have to survive. Let's let us in. So the Romans allow the gods to come into the Roman Empire and settle on the banks of the Danube river, a river named after an ancient Vic goddess, Danube. So the gods settle down around the along the Danub river and in a couple of years they fight Rome and defeat Rome in Adrianople in Turkey. So they fight Rome. They defeat Rome major defeat in Adrian Adrianopople. But eventually they kind of become allies and enemies of the Romans. At the same time, lot of Gothic soldiers served in the Roman armies. Sometimes the Goths fought the Romans in uh the fifth century. The Goths sacked Rome which was a traumatic event for Rome. I think 410 AD or something. Allaric the first was the Gothic king who sacked Rome. Um so these gods who sacked Rome, they are called the Vissigoths, the western gods because they eventually went westwards and they founded a kingdom in what the Romans called Iberia which is now called Spain, Vigoththic Iberia. They founded a Gothic kingdom in Iberia in Spain. And they they ruled until the Arabic invasion of Iberia. Okay. And the Arabs ruled Iberia, Spain for a few centuries. And eventually the gods were able to defeat them in the Reconista. So the Spanish are the descendants of the Ostrogoths. Oh, sorry, the Vissigots, the Visigots. The Western gods. So the gods eventually split into two two branches. The western gods and the eastern gods. The western gods are the visigots. The eastern gods are the Ostrogoths. The eastern gods, they founded a kingdom in Italy. Yeah. So the the eastern gods had a kingdom in Italy and the western gods had a kingdom in Spain and the descendants of of those people are the Spaniards of today. Of course it's more complicated than that but kind of kind of right. So that's the difference between the e the eastern and the western gods. The eastern are the ostro gods and the western are the wissy gods. And that's the relationship with Rome as well. Right. Udit Mahesh says, "If the British were reluctant to settler colonize India because of its hot and humid climate, then how come they displaced the Aborigines in Australia and settler colonized it even though Australia is a very hot and humid place with only summer and typhoons all throughout the year?" Okay, good question. Very interesting question. Let's once again go to Google. Okay, Australia climate. Australia climate zones. Let's see Australia's climate zones. You'll find something very interesting here. These are the different climate zones of Australia. Okay. Climate classification of Australia. Let's let's um give me a second. I'll I'll I'll enlarge this if possible. Yeah, it's not going to work. One second. Australian climate zones, Australian. Okay, let's just go to the Wikipedia article. Perhaps that'll be I suppose easier. Give me a second. I'll open Wikipedia for this. As always, let me remind you Wikipedia is not necessarily a great source of information, but for the sake of u saving time. Let's look at this. So, if you look at this image of Australia, you will see that temperate climate, okay, the green parts. Okay, one second. Even this is not a great uh way of looking at it. So, essentially, one second. Give me a second. I'll come back here. Okay. Once again, we come here. This is a better representation. All right. So if you look at the coastal the regions the coastal regions of Australia the green zones okay the green zones and the blue zones you will find these are the pleasant places to live in if you live in let's say Perth if you live in Adelaide if you live in Melbourne you are essentially living in the Mediterranean region or you have the same climate as you have in California which essentially could be considered to be the nicest climate in the world neither too hot neither too cold very pleasant, pretty cool and that sort of thing. So, and if you now if you look at the Australian population population density, okay, let's do that population density. Well, you will see that the majority of the population is once again distributed in those regions only where you have the nicest climate. So, there are part Okay, this is the best one. Look at this. So there are parts of Australia where you have the nicest climate which is where the British settled. In the rest of Australia which is dry arid with bad climate the a the aboriginals people were allowed to live there but under British control. So there are parts of Australia, the the southern portion of Australia, the Perth region that has beautiful climate, the kind of climate the British love, California kind of climate. Uh Sicily kind of climate um K daz in France, Mari, that kind of climate that's the best climate in the world and that's where the British settled and they did not settle anywhere else. I mean of course now you have populations in Darwin and Kairens and we're not where you have the the same climate as Chennai for example but yeah eventually since they have taken over the country the continent they settled in other places also but the majority of the population is in those nice climate regions so that kind of explains how things went. Okay. Atul Narwan says when we talk about Indian history then excuse me excuse me when we talk about history then why do people not take into account the fact that India has been under foreign occupation for a thousand years they doubt their ancestors all the time and somehow believe that anything of value can only come from the west how to erase this doubt from the Indian mind how to tell them that anc their ancestors have done a complete comp comparatively comparatively great job by not letting Bat become fully Abrahamic or fully colonized. Okay. So why do Indians not take into account the fact that India was under foreign occupation for a thousand years? Let me tell you why. Go back to the time where where you went in school or college. You had history textbooks. What did they say your history textbooks about the British occupation? Did they call it foreign occupation? Did they call it foreign? Did you ever see the word foreign occupation anywhere? Did you see the term occupation anywhere? No, they call it the colonial period or something. It sounds so nice like almost like a good thing. the colonial period. When they write about the Muggal Empire, they'll say the great Muggal dynasty, right? Babar the Great, Humayun the the unfortunate, Akbar the Great, Orurange is slightly not so good. But even Orangab had some great qualities. I'm sure that sort of thing. They don't put your history textbooks don't portray this as a foreign occupation. They treat the Mongols as Indians. They even treat the British as bene benevolent benefactors. Lord William Bentik, such a great man who did so many wonderful reforms in our miserably backward Indian society. That's what they tell you. You are indoctrinated indoctrinated. You are brainwashed into believing that the 1,000 years of foreign occupation was a great time for India of great social reform and progress because we were so backward and barbaric. We needed these foreigners to come and pull us out of our backwardness and we are still backward because we are still Hindus. It is not the fault of Indians that they are mentally colonized and they suffer from an inferiority complex. is engineered into the education system. All your great leaders, most of them believe this. Most of your great political leaders believe all this nonsense. Most of your school teachers, university professors believe this. They grew up learning this. They they they believe that India needs to be pulled out of its backwardness. They believe that the foreign occupation was the best time for India when all these regressive practices where the foreigners tried to so generously and beneely remove from India. It all depends on the lens that you use to see the foreign occupation. So first of all they will not use the term foreign occupation because once you use the term foreign occupation you see images of Nazi Germany coloniz occupying France and whatnot Europe. So if you use the term for an occupation it immediately has negative connotations. So you use the term colonial period muggle empire and so on. So they use see words can be really powerful and once that goes into your mind as a child colonial period ah the colonial period what a great great time it was chi now look at the look at look at India today the colonial period all those great buildings they built for us all those great railways they built for us. Ah, so much good the British did for us. The textbooks won't teach teach you about the the the barbaric famines that they engineered, about the atrocities in 1857 after 1857, the hundreds of millions of Indians who were starved to death, the all the brutal tortures they did to India, the British only, they will not talk about what the Turks did to India. So because of very selective facts that are presented and misrepresented in your textbooks, you all grow up believing that this was the best period of Indian history that our culture is the most backward culture in the world, right? And it still exists which is which is an abomination. So until we change the education system, this is going to continue. But why is it not being changed? Well, ask your leadership. Ask your leaders. Right. A feminist slayer says, "What was the long-term impact of the Huna invasions on India's political and cultural landscape?" India's political cultural landscape. Huna invasions. The Hoons. The Hoons who set the Ostrots and Visigots running from from Romania and Ukraine into Roman into Roman territory. The same horns who invaded the Roman Empire at the same time they were invading India. The same horns. So we called them the schwa hunas, the white horns for whatever reason. Maybe they were had white flags or white dresses or I don't know whatever white skin I don't think so whatever. So we called them the white horns the hunas. And uh the Gupta empire resisted the white hoons and defeated them multiple times. Our last great Gupta emperor Scandanda Gupta spent his entire life and career fighting the Huns and repulsing wave after wave of Hunik invasion. But eventually the Huns made ingress into India. They started with Gandhar. Uh the first Hunik king of Gandhar was what? Torana. Tora Mana. Very naughty guy. He destroyed Takshashira. That idiot. That absolute idiot destroyed Takshashira. Yeah, I I don't think he realized what a stupid mistake he did. Toramana probably is the guy who also built the Bameyian Buddhas. Is it? Let's Let's Google it. I'm not sure who built the Bameanian Buddhas. Who constructed the Bamean Buddhas? Bame. Who? Buddhas. Okay. Buddhist monks during the Heptilite principalities. Yes. The Heptilites are the are the Shwa Hunas. So, which was the king? Which was the king? Who who was the king? Was it Toramana? Let me see. It doesn't say Torana here. So, it's not sure which Heptilite king, which Hunik king built the Bamian Buddhas. It could possibly be Toramana. So, maybe Torana regretted what he did and that's why he constructed the great Buddhas in Bameyan or whatever. But he's the idiot Toana who destroyed Takshashila in western India presently temporarily part of Pakistan. So, that was a disaster for India. Yeah, the Hunas were the the Hoons were well less civilized people. They were nomads and they did not understand the the value of civilization until they settled in India. So initially they would have said let's destroy everything. So he destroyed Takshashila that idiot Tramana and eventually most likely he's the guy who built the Bameyian Buddhas in a later time. Maybe he may have repented of what he did. So he said let me contribute something to culture and civilization eventually and and Tora had a son. If you think toana was bad at least he tried to do something good later. His son was Mihir Koul. Mahihir Khul was hated universally by everyone. He was hated by the Buddha by the Buddhists by the Hindus by the Brahinss by the atheists by the Indians by everybody. He was an absolute barbarian. Mhirkul he was an atheist. He said I will destroy all religious all all whatever religion exists all religious manifestations and uh he he called himself Rajar Raja or something the king of kings Maharaj he called himself Mhirkul and the king of kings eventually he was defeated by some other king and he became a vasal then he did not call himself Maharaj just call him called himself Raja he became a vasal so Mihirkul was was one of the nasty hunik kings and he caused a lot of pain during the time he ruled. Eventually you have later hunic kings who did a lot of good things. You have the um you have the Hindu Shahi empire uh the Hindu Shahi kingdom in Gandhar which is who who is who are the Hindu Shahis? There were the huns, hunik kings who ruled India, who ruled northwest India, the Gandhar Kashmir region. And they fought the Turks. They defended India from the Turks. The same Huns, the Hindu Shahis. Sorry, no, no, no, not the Hindu shah. The Turk Shahis. You first have the Turk Shahis who are the Hind who are the descendants of the Huns who ruled in Gandhar and Kashmir. Turk Shahis. Then you have the Hindu Shahis who may or may not have been Turks or maybe who may or may not have been HS or maybe mixed or whatever. So yeah, you have the Turk Shahis who were Hindus and who defended India from other barbaric Turks. So overall the Hunas they did cause destruction in India. The worst thing they did was destroy Takashila. They also did a lot of good things for India. Eventually once they became Indian after a couple of generations uh they built the Buddhas in Bameyan they they did a lot of religious work one of the hunik kings was the patron of brahagupta for example if you look at let's go in wiki go to wikipedia okay if you see this brahagupta one of our great uh great mathematicians so if you look at this you will see that his patron was a king who could have been a second generation Huna. Okay, I'm not sure where it is but I'm sure you will find it. So that's the deal. So eventually the Hoons did contribute good things to India. Initially they were barbarians and India eventually civilized them after a couple of generations. Um yeah that was the deal about the huns. Shouha says during the time of the saraspati hindu civilization that period of our history uh our ancestors built from that time they built an extremely good drainage system which is even better than today's drainage systems in most Indian cities in all Indian cities. Do you think this this is because at that time India's monsoon was way heavier and it is human nature to adapt to these extreme climates. Okay. So our ancestors from that time period, they built these extremely efficient drainage systems. For example, a few years ago when there was this massive flooding in Pakistan, most of the cities in Pakistan had these big floods that lasted for days. But in Mohenador, Harapa, the water drained out because of the 5,000 year old drainage system that still functioned. Imagine that. So that's how good these drainage systems were which our ancestors built. Why were they so good? Is it because we had a much heavier rainy season at the time much heavier monsoon so we had to adapt to those to that climate and that's why we built better rainy system. Is it the case? Is it the case? But is it really the case? The fact is that everything from that time was better than today. All this see that time period was a fully urbanized time period of our civilization. India was fully urbanized. It was a fully urbanized society at the time. Even small towns were laid out in grid structures. Even villages were laid out in grid structures. And the metropolitan metropolitan cities like Harrapa, Mahindadar, Rakari, Birana or whatnot or Kalimangan. These were all laid out in the grid structure that you see in western cities today, right? So you had beautiful town planning and you had multi-story buildings 5 6 thousand years ago and you had ports and dockyards and harbors with hydrogenering that that rivals what we have today. If you look at the the dockyard the harbor at Lothal and Dul Vira. Those two harbors if you look at those they compare favorably in size and capability in capacity compared to the port of Vishaka Patnam where you can have which can accommodated aircraft carriers today that's how advanced the engineering was. So it's not like only the drainage systems were better than today's India. Everything was better than today's India. What does it indicate, my dear viewers? It indicates, my dear viewers, that your ancestors 5,000 years ago had much higher standards than you all have today. Facts. Face it. Nirvana Shanks says, "Mongol Empire, huge, massive, yet messages went fast. How did they do it?" And then there's a question about music. So, two questions. Mongol Empire, huge, massive, massive. Would you like to see the size of the Mongol Empire? It they had conquered half the world. Okay. Mongol Empire, full extent. Full extent. Come on, let's have it. Okay. Here's the full extent of the Mongol Empire. Check it out. It's like they deliberately chose to not invade only one part of Asia. Right. Right. They deliberately chose to not invade only one part of Asia. They took everything else and they went all the way into Eastern Europe. So this is the size of the Mongol Empire at its peak. And so it's it's clearly a massive empire. It's it's like half the entire known world of the time. more than half. And yet they were able to coordinate things across the empire. Messages went fast. How? The Mongols were nomads originally and to even today they're nomads. They were used to great hardships and they had brilliant strategists such as Subotaai the great general the greatest general in history who could coordinate military deployments over hundreds of kilometers in real time which means that they had messages going and coming at lightning speed. I have 10,000 soldiers. A tum a tuman a tuman is 10,000 soldiers. I am controlling my tuman here. 10,000 200 km away. I have my other tuman over there and I have instructed them to do certain things and we will meet together and crush our enemy from two sides in a way that the enemy can't even imagine. For that I need coordination in real time with my 10,000 guys 200 km away as we are approaching the enemy from two sides. How do you do that without telephones and whatnot? That's the question. And that's just a military maneuver. We're talking about an empire that's like 10,000 kilometers wide. How do you control the entire empire and know exactly what's happening in various parts of the empire? Because of their uh their postal system which was based on riders, horse riders. So they had these postal not really postal system but message relay system. They had these relay posts all over the empire where you would have fresh horses waiting for you. So if I am a messenger of the great emperor Shri Chingis Khan and I have this this letter with his stamp then all I have to do is I I I take a horse a fresh horse and I ride as fast as possible in one day 70 80 kilometers over one p over the period of one day I reach the next check post check post I'm exhausted my horse is exhausted I give my horse to these guys they will take care of the horse and in 2 three days the horse will recover I'll take a fresh horse I'll sleep for a few hours and I'll get going Or maybe I will just hand it over like a relay race, a 4x100 m relay race. I'll hand over the message to the guy who's waiting for me there. And I go to sleep and he starts the journey in the night and he goes to the next checkpoint which a checkpoint post which is another 70 80 km away. So that way you can have messages travel several thousand kilometers in just a few days and that's enough in those days to be able to to control the empire. So that's how it was done there. at these radiating networks that went out in all directions across the empire where you could have messages travel incredibly fast compared to the way messages traveled in those days. So that's how they were able to do it. Now about your uh the question would Axel Rose or Robert Plant be able to sing those tremendous ragas I was talking about in yesterday's liveream provided they have such a broad vocal range of course they can of course they can any competent singer and Axel Rose and Robert Plant are some of the best singers that we have any singer of that of that caliber can sing raas they will obviously need to be taught the fundamentals of raas what a raa is right what the notes are ascending scale descending scale uh Consent consonant note the drone notes the puckard and so on right once you so a little bit of practice they'll be able to sing raas no question about it no question about it right geopolitical dub says what events were taking place outside of bhat or in other contemporary civilizations if any existed during the period of the dasharajan yuda the battle the war of the 10 kings the oldest recorded geopolitical event kind of a world war for the time right. Um so first of all to answer the question you have to kind of place this event in the chronology of history. Only then can we talk about what was happening outside of India outside of Bhat if we know roughly in what time period this war happened. The the war of the 10 kings. So the war of the 10 kings is is is recorded in the riga right and it's a pivotal event in in the history of our civilization. It is uh king sudas the the son of king dodas who was up against a confederation of 10 clans and diwadas was an expansionist. He starts from northern central India moves westwards westwards towards the sap sapasindu region and the kings of the region they say that this is a big threat to us. They they ally together they create create a confederation of more than 10 kings to fight together against the vodas sudas and sudas still defeats them all with the help of Lord Indra. So that and and then those 10 kings and their clans are sent into exile out of India forever. And that probably is the event that sparked off the the expansion the geographical expansion of the Indo-Uropean language family. So that is a pivotal event in world history. The first ever war that's recorded in human history, the oldest geopolitical conflict that we know of. And it it laid the foundation of of Indian civilization because after the the victory the Dvodas had to reassure everybody else in India that okay I'm now the guy. I'm going to rule you all but I am not going to be an oppressor. You're all welcome. Everyone's welcome. Your gods are welcome. When we do yagna everybody's god is welcome. We will give offerings in the yagna. Not just to Indra in mitra veruna through agni. We will give offerings to everybody's gods. So that was a essentially a message of peace, a message of inclusion that all people who live in the subcontinent are now part of our civilization. Pivotal event in our civilizational history. Now the question is when did this happen? Only then we can decide what was happening outside. If it's mentioned in the rigida, it happened before the rigida was written kind of the pre-vedic age. Now the question is when was the rigida written? That's the question. The only way to to date the rigida is not to listen to rula tapper or Michael widzel or or or whoever else maxer 1500 BC arians came to India invaders and 1200 BC they wrote the rigida utter idiocy right let's we you have to examine this a priority from first principles what clues do we have in the text itself that could kind of help us understand when it was written. The the clearest clues are in the one divinity that is referenced over and over and over and over again. Of course, Indra is the one great divinity that is referred to a lot of times. You have Rudra also Lord Shiva but another divinity is Saraswati and Saraswati is extolled but not as a goddess kind of as a goddess as a divinity but also as a physical river. The Saraswati is referred referenced so many times in the Rigveda and the Rigida speaks about the Saraswati in these glowing terms in this kind of aruck terms. It's an awe inspiring river. It's a loudly roaring river. It is the mother of floods. So clearly it's referring to a a river that is in her prime. And the Saraswati we know dried out in the in the second half of its course around 1500 BC. The Saraspati it used to be fed uh by by glacial melt snow melt in the Himalayas and the Indian monsoon was very heavy at the time. That's why the Sarasati was gigantic river which flowed into the western Indian Ocean. But eventually the Indian motions monsoon started declining around 6,000 BC and the Saraswati started also declining and by 1500 BC the Saraspati has dried out in the in the in the lower half of its course and it died out and created this big gigantic lake for a while and the lake eventually dried out and became the Thar desert. So all of this is around 1500 BC. So clearly the rigid has written closer to 6,000 BC than to 1500 BC. So let's assume for the sake of this discussion the rigida was written in 6,000 BC. What was happening in the rest of the world at the time? People were living in caves. People were wearing animal skins outside of India. People were eating raw meat outside of India. That's all we know. That is all we know what events were taking place. People were hunting animals. People were eating raw meat. People were living in caves. People were re wearing animal skins that's all we know right Krishna Raunat of the Surinami Netherlands says does there exist a concept like sin in the four dharmic religions Hinduism Jinism Buddhism Sikhism of course it's called pop it's called pop sin is pap uh so that's an equivalent term in the Sanskrit language in the dharmic world pop But it's different from the Abrahamic sin. In the Abrahamic religions, sin will ensure damnation. In Christianity, you can sin, but as long as you confess, as long as you are shriven, you will be absolved and you'll be fine. So all you have to do is to do nasty stuff. But then you go and and and and repent and you go to a priest and you confess all your say sins and the priest will give you absolution and you may have to do repentance of some kind. The priest will tell you exactly how to repent. And then as long as you do the repentance properly, you will be absolved of your sins and you will go to paradise heaven. And if you do sins and you don't repent and you don't confess and you don't absolve yourself, have yourself absolved and you don't do the necessary repentance or whatever, you will go to hell where you where you will be tortured for all eternity in fair. Yes. By eliabolo. So that's the deal in the Abrahamic religions in Christianity. In Islam it's very similar I suppose. I'm not sure. In Islam they have a day of judgment uh cayamat or something. In Judaism also they have uh hell I suppose heaven and hell. Uh so in the Abrahamic religions sin is tied it's connected to the concept of heaven and hell. If you are a sinner you will be sentenced to eternal damnation in hell. The torments of hell for all eternity. That's what you will suffer. In the dharmic religions, sin is connected to the concept of karma. So you can be a sinner. If you have sinned, it's going to be acred to your karma, your karmic balance. And that will determine the kind of uh not afterlife but rebirth you have. So that is a different kind of concept compared to what you have in the Abraic religions. In in in the Dharmic religions, we have the concept of rebirth, reincarnation, cycles of reincarnation. People can be reincarnated hundreds of times. And so most mostly you don't have any memories of your past lives, but some great people do. Apparently, I'm not one of those. I have no memories of my past lives. So, so the question arises that why why is why is the world unequal? Why are some people just born into prosperity, born into um you know into into a family that is prosperous, that is that is wealthy? Why are you born into wealth? Why are some people just born stronger with better abilities with better intellect than other people? Because they did some good things in their past lives which is what gave them gave them these attributes. So this is the this is the fruit of the good deeds that you did in your past lives. And why are some people just you know born with other attributes that are not so good because of bad things they did in the in their past lives that sort of thing. So what you do in life echoes in eternity through eternity via the process of of rebirth and and the karmic uh consequences of what you've done. So you do have the concept of sin in the dharmic religions. Anything that that is hurtful, that is harmful to other people, to yourself, to society is sinful and that's going to give you bad karma and that's going to have consequences. So that's the difference between the dharmic and abra abrahabic concepts of sin. Okay. Um, Yajjnalia says, "If you search on Google Scholar, occupational endogami, quotes included, most of the references don't seem to be talking about India. Don't you think that's interesting?" Well, that's very interesting. Let's take Let's check it out. So, let's go to Google Scholar. Google Scholar. We go there and we put into quotes occupational Indo Indogami and what do we get assortative mating by cultural and economic occupational status which is not about India it's Chicago marital selection occupational straight up once again not India occupational status and marriage selection is there anything about India here nothing very interesting occupation quite high occupational endogamy can neverless nevertheless be found in English context and so on and so forth so it's clear from what we see here we have Kilmer Irisher which seems to be Scotland and the collers and their wives which is okay count Durham which is in Yorkshire northern England. What else do we have? What else do we have? English rural societies, spinners and weavers of of a United States mi intersecting world. Liverpool's merchant community uh pang of manipur that's India. Okay. Uh occupational blah blah blah blah. Three-way interaction effects. That's a book review. You have something in Korea. H the cast system of India occupational endogamy. So there there's mysore here. So it's it's Catalonia you have. So as you can see occupational endogamy most of these papers they don't refer to India. There's Catalonia, there's Scotland, there's England, there's United States, there's what not. So occupational endogamy seems to be something that's prevalent the world over. But if it happens in India, it is cast system. It is evil. You see how they have selectively singled out India for demonization. If there's Indogami in India, it is the evil cast system. If it is elsewhere, it is occupational Indogamy. It is perfectly natural. In any advanced society, you have stratification of society. You see, but if it happens in India, it is evil cast system. You Indian Hindus are so evil. So you see this selective cherry-picking. You have to understand how these narratives have been crafted over time and then they are taught to you and you grow up believing these things that your culture is evil. Yeah. So very interesting. I'm so glad that Yajnulkia has pointed this out. I think you know someone should write a paper on this, a proper research paper on this. very interesting meta research research about all this research that's been done statistical sampling statistical analysis the top 500 search results that you get in Google Scholar what's the percentage that's about India and what's the context and stuff very interesting uh so thank you sir for for pointing this out um okay Aayush Singh says please tell us about the deeds of Rotten Tata you once said it was too early to talk about him I once said probably a few months ago It was too too early to talk about Ratant Tata. Yeah, I I I'm sure I said that. Let me put this in the right context. Are you? And everybody else. You see the French Revolution, it happened in the late 18th century, 1789 to 1799, right? 1789 to 1799, 10 years roughly French Revolution happened. The Chinese foreign minister Shiaoin Lai, he was asked by an American delegation in 1972, what what do you think of the consequences of the French Revolution? Of the effects of the that the French Revolution had he was asked this in 1972. He said it is too early to talk about it. It's too early. It's too early to say. Kind of like that. All right. Okay. Let's take one more question. Excuse me. Uh Ashish Ashes says, "Since you don't have any science episodes, I would I have a quick question." Okay, this is a question about physics. Okay, let's turn it into a historical question, shall we? I am I'm a genius. I can turn physics questions into history questions. And are you wondering how? Oh, let me show you how. First, let's read the question. In the interstellar movie, there was a principle that time moves slowly near the high gravity zones such as black holes. Okay. TK. Therefore, from our perspective, the age of the universe is 13 billion years. But from the perspective of black holes or primordial black holes or whatever, the age of the universe would be way less than 13 13 billion years, perhaps a few million years. And could it be true that the singularity at the singularity perspective, the birth and death of the universe is happening simultaneously? So how do I convert this into a history question? Well, this is a question about the history of the universe, right? So we'll convert this, we'll see this from the perspective of history. So there is something called gravitational time dilation and there is something that you will find in my books that I'm writing a book right now. I'm I'm period serializing it and you will find the links in the description. Sure. So what is gravitational time dilation? It means that the closer you are to a massive object, the slower time passes. The universe, its fabric is made up of four dimensions. The three spatial dimensions and the fourth dimension is time. So the universe is made up of a fourdimensional fabric of spacetime. And the presence of mass curves spacetime. It curves not just space but also time. Even time is curved. Do you know why everything is mass? Why do why do things fall? Because of gravity. Gravity is simply the manifestation of the curvature of spaceime. Okay? And the weight that we have. Let's say your weight is 70 kilos. You know why you have a weight of 70 kilos? It's because of the curvature of time. More curvature of time, less curvature of space. The curvature of time is causing what you consider to be your weight. Your head is older than your feet. Do you know that? by a very small fraction of time. But your head is older than your feet. Your feet are younger because they are closer to the center of the planet than your head. So the closer you are to a mass, the slower time passes. And this effect becomes extreme near very massive objects such as black holes. If you are close to the event horizon of a black hole of a massive black hole, time passes really slowly for you. But from your perspective at the near the black hole you feel that time is passing just fine. My watch is ticking just the way it is. But if you have a friend who is observing you from a very large distance away they will see you as totally frozen. You're not moving at all because for for them time is passing passing passing at a different speed. So the closer you are to a black hole, the slower time passes for you. Which means that the external universe seems to seems to be moving much faster. Which means that if you actually go inside a black hole, if you cross the event horizon, you will see things that are so weird looking outwards. In the time that it takes your heart to beat once, you will see the birth and death of stars. That's what you see if you're taking that final journey towards the singularity. So from the perspective of somebody who's near a black hole, let's say you have a black hole that was created right after the birth of the universe and if if you had a person an observer there near the event horizon for them the universe may have lived for just a few years for a few centuries but for us it is 13.8 billion years. So yes, it all depends on where you are and how close you are to a massive object. If you are in the vicinity very close to the event horizon of a black hole, time passes at a different speed for you and the universe seems to be playing out in in fast forward, right? And from a singularity's perspective, yeah, well, it's not really a a physics question anymore. It's a it's a philosophical question because it can't really you can't really do that experiment. But from a singularity's perspective, the birth and the death of the universe happen simultaneously. Yeah, this is the weirdness of general relativity. That's how weird physics can be and that's how fascinating physics is. Okay, that's the end of the questions for today. I have more questions, but I am I'm running out of time. I should take some questions from the from the live chat as well. All right, I have no idea what this pugloo means, but all right. Yes, Aayosh, it is it is still too early. It's still too early to talk about it. I can see that people have taken super chats. I'm going to have to finish these because Yeah. Okay, I'll I'll finish the super super chats. Uh Data Ganesh, thank you ma'am. Thank you so much for being a member. Thank you so much. I really appreciate that. Thank you. Ram says Kalikat Zamuran kings allowed Muslims to settle in Malabar with just one condition of not killing cows as noted by even later Malabar voted for partition. Can these events be invoked to determine future policies? Everything has a cause and effect chain and what happens in the what happened in the past can be used as a model to kind of predict predict what could happen in the future. So based on the things that have happened in the past, based on the cyclicality of nature of of of history and and of um of human nature, you can kind of say that if things happen in the past, they could similar things could happen. The same pattern could recur in the future. So yes, these events can be invoked to determine what could happen in the future and to determine appropriate policies in case you want to have something else happen. Rede indeed. Abua Singh says, "Please make someone a mod here when you're busy answering questions. Some lechers disturb the chat. Some are right here, right? Some are here right now as well. Well, I shall inform my moderator very strictly that please don't fall asleep at the wheel and do remove the lechas who may be disturbing um the the the other viewers. So I apologize for that and I'll ensure I will ensure that there is stricter moderation going forward. Uh go says why is India pleading now to the US to allow it to buy Iranian oil instead of Russian oil? Why show weakness? Now this is not a historical question sir. Today we are dealing with history. I just don't understand why people have to do this. It's a history. Look at the title of this this episode of this video. It says Indian and world history. This is this is something I've seen in Indians. Indians just want to cut corners and and bend the rules. Right. Anyway, since you've asked the question, I'll say India is not pleading. India is giving an example to the US that you have already stopped us from buying Iranian oil and we we went along with your with your nonsense. Now you want us to stop Russian oil also. Eventually you will want us to stop everything. That's not how it works. So if you really want us to stop buying Russian oil, we will buy Iran and oil. Will will you be okay with that? There's a no. So we saying then you you can go take a hike. India is not pleading with anybody else. India is not pleading. Please understand that. Wooden armor says we have seen evidence of Hinduism all the way to Mesopotamia. Is there any relationship between Hindus, Indas and Norse civilizations? Norse civilization. There was no Norse civilization. There was Norse culture. If you look at their gods, these are manifestations of ancient Indian gods. Who is Thor? Thor is the god of the thunderbolt and the hammer. What is the meaning of the word vajger? Vajger is a hammer that's made out of the of the uh rib cage of rishi is it or whoever it is. It's a hammer. It's also a thunderbolt. Lord Indra is the original Thor. The Greeks copied Lord Indra and turned him into Zeus. Zeus is a god with a Vajgerra with a thunderbolt also a hammer god. So is Jupiter and eventually so is uh Thor. So yeah, there is a connection. No question about it. No question. Prattana says as per proper hard evidence chariot antenna held swords only spread to Europe around 1500 BC time coinciding with Mitani related migrations in ADNA. Our people are finding Indas and Alalak ancestry in Idonia. Okay, that's interesting. If you could give a specific reference of a paper in the in the in the comments later on, I could look into it. there are so many papers and and the past two three years I've not really kept a breast of what's happening in the research. Uh I was deep into the RN inversion migration debunking thing in 2017 2018 all the way up to 2020 21 then I kind of pulled out of it because uh you know because the new evidence comes in at a very slow rate. I wanted to synthesize all the evidence that existed until that point and to demonstrate that this entire story this narrative that there was an invasion of India by arians it is a lie and I put out a an article which brought all the evidence together and I showed the patterns that it's entirely a lie. So, so then they converted that into a migration thing from invasion to migration and eventually they'll do all the so all these little piece pieces of evidence which come in they all tie in with all the other evidence and they and they patch up all the all the holes. So it's like a gigantic jigsaw puzzle and the the the the the researchers and and the and and the narrative pro the propagandists who are pushing the Arian migration invasion narrative they will selectively pick cherrypick some parts of the evidence and misconstrue it to to claim that there was a migration or invasion like Michael Vitzell and his inversion of the of the Bodhi Nasha Sutra's the meaning of what what was written there of an invasion to the east instead of west that sort of thing. So chariot antenna and hilt swords spread to Europe around 1500 BC which is when you have the the the the recorded presence of Indians in Anatolia and Syria the mitani empire right mitani related migrations very interesting yes and uh or people are finding industalak ancestry in alonia the more the research the more research happens the more you're going to find evidence that there were invasions not invasions there were migrations West of India outside of India. India was the origin of these of these migrations. India was the big gigantic population center compared to the rest of Eurasia. And these migrations were happening out of India. The same time that you have the first presence of Indian cattle and Indian people in Anatolia, in Syria and in Egypt, at the same time you have the first presence of Indians in Australia. Indians were adventurers. Indians who used to go by sea, Indians used to go travel by land, Indians wanted to go everywhere and and travel the world. It's Indians who spread the Indo-Uropean cultures everywhere. And eventually the evidence is going going to become so overwhelming that it's going to be indisputable. But these beliefs change only with the passing of people. You see for example for the longest time it was believed that black holes are nonsense. Arthur Edington and Albert Einstein himself were a huge opponents of the concept of black holes. Einstein wrote papers trying to prove that black holes could never exist. Edington humiliated Subramanyam Chandra Shikhar because Chandra Shikha's research was showing that black holes would form. It was only after the death of Edington and Einstein that the research in black holes really took off. So you will need the passage of time and the passage of these evil propagandists for things to change. It'll take time but it's all going to come out and I will be vindicated. Pratana says pashons and kyis turks have R1A branch shar with Kushans and Santashta. It turns out Tari mummies are R1B and R1A takes over in around iron age. Very interesting. Looks like there's been new research. I'll have to look it look it up. I'll have to check it out. So, tar mummies are R1B. Well, what I had seen was that the majority was R1A, but maybe there's new research and new samples have come out. I'm not sure. I'll have to check it out. Pashons and Kygis Turks have R1A branch shared with Kushans and Shinta. Tari mummies are R1B. So are you saying the tarim mummies are not connected to the Kushans? Very interesting. I love to check out this new research. Like I said, I've not been keeping in touch with the research the past 3 four years, but I'll check it out. So, thank you for pointing this out, sir. Thank you very much. Harshai says, why is cousin why cousin marriage is common in idli state? It was done in Mahabha too. I have no idea what idli states are. What is Mahabha? Mahabharat. Did you have cousin marriages in Mahabharat? I'm not sure about this sir. Not sure. Sorry. Ash Ketchum says, "How did the British establish corruption in India?" They institutionalized corruption. Example, the British created something called the judiciary. The judiciary's role was to uh end dispute to to resolve and mediate in disputes and to enforce the um enforce contracts and the the objective was to ensure that the British got their things done very fast. But if you are creating a judiciary even the Indians will have to because they are ruled by you they will also approach the judiciary for various disputes. So the British ensured they they implemented a two-t tire system that when there is a British person who comes to the judiciary with a case the case is disposed of fast lightning fast. But when an Indian person has will approach the judiciary that will be delayed. Those cases will be delayed. They will be asked for bribes. the the papers will be will will get stuck in various files and each stage of the way you to go and approach that clerk and pay some bribe. So this was another means of the another way of demoralizing the Indians and and and and and you know oppressing them. Isn't this called corruption? That's one way to institutionalize corruption in India. Prattana says Italy, Spain, Greece have low 10 to 20% yamna industry only. Does it mean separate origins or two or even three sources and regions of origin? So the Yamna invasion happened about 4 and a half thousand years ago. It came from the east and it spread into Europe and in a very short period of time historically speaking. The Yamna conquered most of Europe and they conducted a proper genocide of the European males and then they interbred intermingled with the women folk who they did not kill and their descendants are today's Europeans. Now the extent of the genocide would differ in various parts of Europe. In many parts of Europe almost all the males were killed off. For example, if you go to the British islands, uh the people who built Stonehenge, their male folk were killed off entirely. Their women were not killed. And today's English British people, the Celtic people who lived in the British islands at the time of Julius Caesar, they were the descendants of the Yamna males and the original women folk of the region. So if Italy and Spain and Greece have low Yamna ancestry, it means that the genocide was only partially done there. That's what it would mean. It means that the original huntergather folk who lived in Italy Greece um male folk, it looks like many of them would have survived the Yamna invasion and their genetics continue. Uh does it mean separate origins? Well, it depends on what is the meaning of separate origins. It depends on the time period we're looking at. If you're looking at the last 5,000 years, definitely separate origins. If you're looking at the last 80,000 years, all common origins pointing to Africa. So, it depends on what lens you're looking at, what time period you're looking at. But definitely if you're looking at 5,000 year perspective, definitely different origins. Yes. Godliness says some historians believe the Rajput and Jat kings felt betrayed by the Marata Empire. Hence they did not support the Marata army in the third battle of Anipad. Is this true? Uh and so on. I am not an expert in this. I am not interested in recent history. I have not studied the Marata Empire in any great detail. I am not competent to answer questions about the Marata Empire and the little petty rivalries that existed in India at the time. I have no interest in this period of history. It is a majorly depressing period of Indian history for me. It's maybe something that's left over from my childhood because in my childhood I used to stay away from Indian history. I used to read Greek history, Roman history, etc. blah blah blah, Egyptian history, Chinese history, world history. I would I I would stay away from Indian history because it was so depressing. It was a history of defeats. And this entire time period where you have Indians fighting Indians and their maratas trying to defeat the the muggles who have already defeated the Rajpos before and all that. I I have never really bothered to study this in detail which is why I am not the right person to answer this question and I am not interested in these battles of these ego battles. Marata versus Rajput versus Jad versus whoever else versus Gurjar versus Pratihar and God knows what else. Indians they they they spend their whole lives fighting this petty little ego battles. They forget that we are one people. Indians always prioritize their subnational ancestry, their subivilizational ancestry and their subiviliz subivilizational identities. This is the problem with Indians. They have this great desire from inside to keep fighting each other. So I have no interest in this. I'm sorry because I'm not the right person to answer this question. Um godliness says historical fact from Bible and core of USIsrael alliance. Jesus's second coming will only be possible if there will be a third temple on the temple mount in the holy holy city of Jerusalem. My views I have no views. I stay out of this matters. I have no idea. Very very sorry. I have no idea. I have not studied the Bible. The only time I read the Bible was when I was stuck in a hotel room when I was 8 years old and they had this small little pocket Bible and I had a whole day to to kill and the TV TV was boring for that day for some reason. So I read that little book and that's the only time I read the Bible, a pocket Bible and I have no recollection. It was kind of an interesting story. Did not have any effect on me by the way. Yeah. Did not have any effect on me. Did not convert me. Did not even tempt me to convert. So failure. But yeah, I have no idea about this. Sorry. Pratt Dhana says Supreme Court criticize the government for swinging Akbar bad for showing Akbar bad. All right sir. Okay. What can I say? All right. Noted. Uh Akinta Anandan says Assyrian Queen Seamis invaded India 800 BC but was defeated by King Tabroatis near Indas. Alexander later used the same route to enter India. There is some story of an Assyrian queen who tried to invade India and who was defeated. All right. Yeah, I've heard I've heard this but I've not really studied this in detail. And obviously if you are coming from the west, you want to invade India from the Persian route. Well, you have to take the same route and it's a pretty open territory, right? Uh eastern Persia, it's all mostly deserted arid land and it continues into Sind all the way. There's nothing to stop you. It's essentially it's an open road, open land. you can just walk in. So yeah, Alexander would have used the same route to enter India. Adita Singh doesn't have a question but All right, sir. Thank you so much. I appreciate your contribution. Thank you so much. Thank you so much, sir. Okay. Okay. Um Adidi says, "Why are comments banned? What did I do wrong?" Really? Why are your comments banned? I'm seeing your comment here. I have no idea. Are you unable to put comments? Um I can assure you that I have not banned anyone's comments. Okay? If YouTube is doing something I can't control that. So this is a a foreign platform. They will do what they want. I am happy to take everybody's comments. I don't why would your comments so I'm sorry if you're facing any problems in in putting questions but definitely not me who has done that. All right. Okay. Okay. So Vishala says what? Oh, it's she's asking Aush, not me. T you you take it offline. Mish palad Aush. Okay. All right, people. I think I'm going to end it here. Thank you everybody for the questions. It was a great live stream. I had more questions, but I think I'll end it over here. Two and a half hours. And tomorrow we shall take questions about geopolitics. So, those of you who have questions about geopolitics, tomorrow is the day. I'll take as many questions as possible. Tomorrow only geopolitics. No history. Tomorrow, only geopolitics. Take care everybody. I look forward to seeing you tomorrow. Keep asking questions. Keep learning. Keep raising your standards as always. And I'll see you very soon. Bye-bye.