Heat. Heat. [Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] [Music] Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome to the Ask Abijit Show episode 273. I hope everyone's doing great. Let us see who all is there in the live chat. So this is going to be a super chat and live chat uh episode. I'm going to take questions live from all of you and you can start asking but let me see who all is there on the live chat. I can see meet Arian Patel Sagar Toat Manish Khar Do Suas Suas Ready Rashmir from Rajasthan. Bageshwar Army Samana Satish uh Ramshukla Shri Ramchandra Anamaha Hitan Shua Sep Raj Krishnagiri Savary Set from Bihar from planet Bihar. Uh Sumit again geopolitical dub from Indor Pay Paul from Kolkata. Who else do we have? Shrea Smithra from Moscow. Jay Gum Boswis Djamat says good morning. Well, good morning to you sir. Nishant Tari Latangi Suresh Alvin Rodriguez Animesh Paul Aush Somi Jane from Jaipur Anub Namaste Shiv Watza Meit. Who else do we have? We have Suas. We have Ashwari Nagar. We have pro gamer Om and lots and lots of other people. So hello everybody and great to see you all. Now let's get going with some questions. More people are chiming in. Alan Jay Victor, Uncle Bag Packer from Pune, Atangi Sur from Tamil Nadu. Good morning. Well, good morning and everybody else. Okay, let's get get going some with some questions. We have one super chat right now. So let's take that. Rohan Sunea says, "Should India take over the Atolla island given its strategic location near Pakistan's coast? If the UK can hold the Faulland Islands from 12,000 kilometers away, why can't we? So, to answer that question, first of all, let's take a look at where this island is located. Uh, let's go to the map. I'm going to put the map on the screen, and we're going to go and find this island, Ashola Island. So, Aola Island is off the coast of Pakistan. Uh, somewhere over here. Now, where where will it be? Let's find it. It's it it won't be very far away from from Guada. So I suppose this should be Asta. Here we have it. So first of all, let me click here. This is Atola Island. And let's zoom out so that we understand where we are talking, what location we're talking about. It's not very far from the coast of India. If we do a straight line from Katch to Atolah, it's about 470 something kilometers away. Now this island belongs to Pakistan. This is officially Pakistani territory. This is not disputed territory unless you consider the whole of Pakistan to be disputed territory. So it's Pakistani territory. Now according to international law, you just you can't just walk in and take over someone's territory, right? You can't do that unless there is a just cause for that. And right now we don't have a just cause for that. And if we start go going and doing such things, it will give other nations the the the justification for trying to do something similar to us. If the world starts behaving in that manner that whoever is stronger just goes and grabs whatever they want, then the entire international system collapses. Now you are comparing this with the Faulland Islands. Let's consider that as well. So the Faulland Islands or the Malvas are located off the coast of Argentina. Okay, these are the islands and they obviously are significantly far away from the UK. Uh just a rough measurement. If we do a straight line measurement, it's going to be about there we have it 12,000 something kilometers. But the fact is that these islands have been held by the UK for a very long time. they are off the coast of Argentina which is why the um the Argentine government the nation of Argentina claims these islands as its own uh and there's history behind that we'll not go into that uh but that's a different case when it comes to island we have see whoever was in charge of making decisions in the late 1940s 45 46 47 they decided that India will be partitioned and Indian territory will be given over to create a new country artificial temporary nation called Pakistan and Atolah was part of that so you can't just walk in there and take it I'm sure we can do it we are powerful powerful enough to go and take the island and and retain it if we want to the Pakistanis will put up some reg resistance but I'm sure we can do this but the point is that it is illegal according to international law to just walk into someone's territory and grab it Right. We can but it it's going to cause all kinds of problems for us. The more powerful nations like the US and China will then sanction India and declare India as you know categorize India in the same category as Russia for the alleged Russian invasion of Ukraine which obviously has happened right. So we can do it but it is not advisable to do that until and unless we become so powerful that nobody can stop us. And obviously Pakistan was created artificially without considering the sentiments of the Indian people without having a referendum as to whether the Indian people are willing to give up Indian territory to create this artificial nation. That's a whole different story. But what's happened has happened and today Pakistan is a legally recognized nation and according to international law we just can't do that. Right? So I'm sure it's strategically great and all that but it it it's it's not something we can do as of now. Okay, let's take another question. This is by Rashik Udin. Rashik Udin says, why are there so many plane crashes this year? So let's take a look at plane crash statistics, shall we? Uh let's let's remove this. Okay, the question is why are there so many plane crashes this year? Are there are there more plane crashes this year compared to other years? Let's find out. Uh let's go and uh do a simple Google search. Number of plane crashes per year. Number of plane crashes per year. Let's see. Number of plane crashes. Um where shall we go? I think we can take a look at Wikipedia even though it's not necessarily reliable, but let's take a look. Plane crashes per year history. What do we have? Aviation. Okay, this doesn't seem to have a yearby-year thing. So, let's not go there. Let's uh let's move out. Do we have yearly statistics somewhere? What does this AI overview say? Fatal accidents blah blah blah rate. Um not sure. Do we have some figures? What is this? People killed. No, we just want to know the number of air crash accidents, not number of deaths. Not sure. Not sure. Where do we find something? Okay, I'll have to look into this. This is per year. Do we have this? How many commercial plane crashes per year? Uh fatal accidents. Okay. From from 2020 to 2025 2020 2025. Let's see. Okay, let us see. What is panny flaw? I don't know what it is, but let's take a look. Do you have a yearby-year breakdown? Once again, it's not giving. Okay, maybe it does. aviation crashes. So, look, it looks like the number of crashes per year is going down, but it doesn't seem to have the latest 2025 statistics. Let me see over here. It's only up to 2019 here. Okay, fine. We'll have to go somewhere else, I suppose. And somebody's asking the same question. How many plane crashes this? Uh, let us see. Two small planes, blah blah, etc. Okay, once again it's okay. Look, I'm not going to do this because it's it's going to take half an hour perhaps. The point is that just because there is a lot of media coverage of air crashes, aircraft crashes, doesn't necessarily mean that there are more more plane crashes than than previous years this year. It doesn't mean that. It doesn't mean that at all. So, I don't know. I'll have to go and look into the statistics to figure out how many plane crashes have occurred per year in the past 10 years or so. And then if we can find that then perhaps we can um do we have perplexity? Let me see. Perplexity. Maybe Perplexity can f can find us. Um okay, let's let's go to Perplexity and check that out. Okay, let's do this. Please list the number number of plane crashes that occurred per year between 2015 and 25. Let's see what perplexity they can find us. What can it find? Um blah blah blah etc. Okay, let's see. I don't want fatalities, but it's still giving me fatalities. So, 2015, 123, 2021, 113, 2022, 100. Wow. Okay. 2025, we have 122. Well, that's that's interesting. That's that's rather concerning. Uh the average I think even we just barely halfway through 2025 and we already above the average per year of the past 10 years. Well, looks like what you are saying may be true. So, it looks like there actually are more plane crashes this year than in previous years. Well, that's interesting and that's concerning. Why is it so? Is it because safety standards have dropped in some airline manufacturing companies? Maybe. I don't know. I think we we'll be able to figure out what the reason is only in hindsight only once the year is over and we can analyze what's happening. One point of concern is very clear that Boeing the Boeing aircraft company now I could ask perplexity to you know tell us how many of these were Boeing aircraft and how many were not. We could do that also but I'll not do it right now. Um, but it's possible. I mean, shall we do that? Shall we do that? Let's do that. Uh, let's ask a follow-up question. Um, how many of the uh plane crashes? Plane plane crashes in 2025 involved Boeing aircraft. Let's see. We have 122 crashes this year. not explicitly summarized. It's trying to hide. Okay. Well, I'm sure it has the statistics. I suppose it's it's I think we'll have to interrogate it further and use some specific prompting techniques perhaps to get the get to the bottom of this. There is a there is an ongoing concern about Boeing. Okay. Boeing has in the past few years seemingly lowered its uh safety standards and they have tried to hide things from the public. They there they had these couple of plane crashes that happened one in Indonesia and one in Ethiopia that were because of the faulty MCAS system I believe which was a software patch that would force the aircraft's nose to keep going down if the one of the uh angle of attack sensors was faulty and you usually have two angle of attack sensors on both sides of the fuselage but the MCAST system was tied was connected only to one of these sensors. So a single point of failure which is incredible and that that's what caused the two crashes and after the first crash happened Boeing was aware that this is the the faulty MCCast system that caused the crash and yet they hid they suppressed this they hid this from the public and they allowed a second crash to happen. So there are concerns about moving no question about it and uh perplexity I think I'll have to interrogate it using third or fourth degree or something to to get the answer but uh yeah looks like perplexity is not very forthcoming with the answer. So yeah there are issues with Boeing for sure but I'm not sure if it's the the entirety if if if that is the only reason why there have been more more plane crashes this year. We'll have to look into it. Right now I don't have an answer but one thing is very clear Boeing is there are problem problems with Boeing and all of that goes back to uh the merger that Boeing had with the McDonald Douglas company uh which happened I think I don't know quite a while ago but that's when the the company's culture changed the it was the McDonald Douglas bosses who essentially eventually took over operations in in Boeing and they changed the culture of the company they they they moved the headquarters from one city, the long-standing city to another city and everything changed in Boeing and they started doing cost cutting and it became a marketing marketing driven company rather than an engineering driven driven company and u yeah that's that seems to be the reason why there have been so many issues but we'll have to see we'll have to see yeah swastik mahesh thank you very much sir thank you Aries mantor says given the recent sanctions imposed by imposed on India by the European Union and China's seemingly good behavior. How important is aggressive leverage in negotiations? Well, if you have ever negotiated for anything, leverage is all that matters in negotiations. Whether it's aggressive or non-aggressive leverage, leverage is leverage. Leverage doesn't have a type. Leverage is leverage. The more leverage is leverage is a scalar quantity. It is not it's not a vector quantity. Leverage has magnitude. it doesn't have direction. So the larger your leverage and the more different kinds of leverage you have, the better off you are in negotiations, right? So leverage is all that matters in negotiations. If you have no leverage, then you're going to come off second best in in the negotiations and obviously you need to know how to negotiate. Yeah. So leverage is very important. Yes. So recently the EU has sanctioned an Indian refinery because of uh because we are importing Russian crude oil and then refining it and then selling it to the EU nations and the EU has imposed sanctions on that that Indian company Indian refinery and let's see how the government of India responds to that. But yeah, so this is an ongoing issue for us. They're essentially trying to clamp down on India's sovereignty on what we can do and what we cannot do as a sovereign nation. They will decide. So that that's an issue. Okay. Prrenit says listen this is not a geopolitical question sir. I have said it very clearly. I'm going to take only geopolitical questions today. I don't deal in I don't look into national politics. I'm very sorry but I I will not be taking this question. I have put a pinned comment that I'm going to take geopolitical questions only. So why are you doing this? I I don't understand. I I'm sorry. I I don't discuss national politics, internal politics. I just don't do it. So there we have it. Shivam says, "What's the update in Burma?" I have no idea. Update of what kind? Geopolitical update. It's it's an ongoing situation. It's an ongoing situation. The the nation is in a state of civil war. Uh about half of the nation is under the control of the uh government of Burma, the military government. And about half of the nation is in the control of various ethnic groups and the and the militias they have formed. And all of these militias obviously they are supported by foreign nations. Generally there are two nations that are supporting various militias. One is the nation of China and one is the United States. So it's a proxy war that you're seeing in Burma. And generally the militias that are supported by the United States are militias connected to ethnic groups that have been converted to Christianity over the past few decades or whatever. Whichever ethnic groups are Christian, they're fighting on behalf of the US and whichever ethnic groups are non-Christian, they're fighting for China or they're fighting autonomously. But autonomously if you're fighting, you will not get your endless supply of arms and ammunition. Right? You need arms and ammunition. Even if you have AK-47s, you need bullets. After firing a few, you're going to get rid of the bullets will you're going to exhaust your bullets, right? So where do the bullets come from? They can only come if you have a foreign patron because you're not manufacturing bullets at home, right? So that's the deal. So it's an ongoing situation and it has spilled over into India and into Manipur mostly and that is something the government of India needs to look into. I mean, do we want to absorb lacks of foreigners who have no allegiance to our culture, civilization or our country and who are essentially proxies of of of uh the United States? Do we want that? Is that what we want to do? You want to give up half of the territory of money of Manipur to foreigners? I don't care how many decades they've been squatting in India. Pakistanis were recently discovered who have been in India since the 1950s and 1960s. doesn't mean they're Indians now. So let's say these cookies have been here since 1890. So what? It doesn't make them Indian, right? They they they've been transplanted to create this artificial problem. They've been transplanted from from various parts of Burma into Manipur to punish the kingdom of Manipur. That's what the British did. It was a punitive measure to bring in foreigners who would then create problems for the locals. Do we want these people in India? Really? So that's something the government of India needs to look into and uh we have to treat all foreigners all foreign infiltrators and squatters in India the same way no matter how many decades they have been sitting in India it doesn't matter even if they have documents Aadhaar cards and PAN cards and god knows what other cards they must have been given we know what the deal is it's very easy if you have local political connections to get these documents created and There'll be actual real documents. So many Rohingyas in Bangladeshes have these Aadhaar cards and I don't know election cards, election ID cards and bank accounts and everything. It's usually easier for these foreigners to get documents compared to actual Indians. So yeah, all all of this needs to be looked into. It's a complete absolute mess. It's a multi-dimensional mess. uh India's far east has been horribly mismanaged by India since 1947 since 1949 step step motherly treatment has been given as a consequence of that there have been so many insurgencies which then foreign nations have taken advantage of so this needs to be fixed obviously it needs to be fixed so there we are um MK says are the weapons that we sell to other countries under the supervision and control of Indian technicians especially the uh the Philippines which is a US facile well I don't have information about this uh the Philippines as we know has very strong ties with the US we know that you could be correct in saying the Philippines is a US vasal no question about it and now there's even stronger uh cooperation that's now beginning to happen between the Philippines and the US which is something I discussed in the recent episode of geost strategy that aired 48 or so hours ago. Uh so Philippines obviously is a US facile and uh we have sold if I'm not mistaken bramos missiles the Philippines. Now if you sell the if India sells the bramos missile system to any country country X country Y country Zed whatever it will only happen if Russia approves it because this is a jointly co-developed co-produced missile system. So both nations get a veto. If Russia wants to sell it to country X then it has to take India's permission. If India wants to sell it to country X we have to take Russia's permission. It can only happen if both countries agree. Now I expect that the missile system that we sell to foreign countries will be what we call an export version. It will not be the full version that's used by the Indian armed forces. It will be a slightly watered down version and uh I'm sure we we will have taken sufficient care to ensure that no critical technology falls into the hands of let's say the master of the vasal right. uh but whether we have uh Indian technicians there or not I think only the government of India will know about it. It's not something that will be disclosed to the rest of the world including to Indian citizens. So I don't know about that but I'm sure we have taken sufficient precautions to ensure that our critical technologies don't fall into the hands of nations that may not be very favorably inclined towards us. Saita Reddi says, "How could melting Arctic sea routes reconfigure Indo-Pacific maritime trade? The Arctic region." Let's go and take a look at the Arctic region on the map. Okay. So, here we have the map of the world. Now, you're talking about first let's discuss the Indo-Pacific maritime trade. So, the Indo-Pacific maritime trade, there's no trade happening in the Pacific. The nations that exist in the Pacific are very very tiny nations. These are the South Pacific nations like Samoa, French Polynesia, the Cook Islands, the Pitkan Islands which is micros which is a micro nation essentially. Very interesting history of course but I'll not go into that. Uh then we have Samoa, we have Fiji, we have Tonga the capital of Tonga is it's Nuku alfa. Where is Nuku alfa? Here we have it. Nuku alfa the capital of Tonga. Yeah GK question and so on. So these are tiny nations. So the trade with those nations doesn't really matter. Then we have Hawaii which is a US uh which is a US occupied region. Uh but see the trade that happens between various nations. It passes through various choke points as we know. One is the straight of Bab al-Mandde which is over here right the other one is uh the so canal that's another choke point. Then you have energy choke point which is the straight of hormos over here. the straight of Orurum. Then we have this straight of Malaa which is another choke point choke point and so on and there's some more which we can dis which so most of the trade it passes through these choke points Mala Sis Bab al-Mandde the energy trade it has a choke point is as in u the straight of Hormuz and because of the recent problems in the Gulf of Aen that's why a lot of the trade has been routed across all the way down south through the cape of why the cape of good hope and so on. So the trade the trade routes they essentially are between large nations like India and China and the western nations like the EU nations and so on and also the United States. So that trade could possibly go via the Pacific. Now just because the Arctic uh sea route could open up doesn't mean that we need to start using that and start bypassing this region because most of the nations over here the major nations they're far from the Arctic and uh and they don't really need I mean it doesn't really make sense to go all the way north and then you know transport goods via the Arctic region. it will be significantly more costly to do that. The reason why the Arctic region is important is because it will have significant uh reserves of oil and natural gas. Okay. uh and it is something that nations like China and the northern European nations and also North American nations that could use that that would be interested in that and obviously uh because of the the reserves of oil and gas and other other resources that will open up over here that's why this region is uh it's coming under increasing focus but uh in my opinion it is not really because if I'm I've shown you how far it from the major nations. It's it's not really an alternative u sea route which could replace the existing sea routes. It's something that's important because of the natural resources found in the region. It is not really a viable alternative alternative to reroute the trading uh trading uh lanes for. Okay. Nandanda Takar says, "Did Mossad help Adani from Hindenburg?" Listen, when you talk about whether Mossad did this or Mossad did that, do you think I am the person to ask that? Do you think I work for Mossad or I have connections in Mossad? Do you really think so? Come on. Yeah, you better ask a Mossad agent. I assure you I'm not. I have no connections in Mossad. And uh the the if Mossad did something you think they will let me know about it. Come on ask better better questions please. Aries Manticor says many fear monger sanctions on India on Russian oil but it is is it not an opportunity. Let them eject us out of the global economy. It could force us to evolve towards self-reliance and fundamental changes. Sure. Okay. uh it will leave India with no option but to be self-reliant and so on but it will co come at tremendous cost and tremendous pain right and not short-term cost and short-term pain long-term I mean at least a couple of decades worth and then our dear Indian citizens will start whining and moaning and crying that I have we now can no longer get the benefit of this or that or we no longer get our so-called our our luxury goods we no longer get iPhones we no longer get uh uh Android phones. We no longer get this. We don't we can no longer watch uh our favorite uh Netflix for example. We no longer have Amazon. I mean all kinds of complaints will come in and of course we will lose out on a lot of trading opportunities GDP growth opportunities which could which could ensure that we don't reach the uh 10 trillion dollar target GDP by 2020 whatever period time period whatever target we target date we have maybe 2030 right maybe we want to become a 10 trillion economy by 2030 or 2035 we'll is that so it's an opportunity of sorts. It's an opportunity only if you're an utarch only if you have u access to all the u all the natural resources and everything that that that are needed that are necessary for a nation to grow. If you don't have access to that then it's a big problem. So for example we still depend on other nations for our energy oil and gas about 60 plus% of our energy especially oil and gas comes from abroad more than that I'm sure now if we have sanctions and and the sanctions force the Gulf nations to not trade with us then what happens so we have to be realistic that this is not merely an opportunity. It's a huge problem. If this happens, if they eject us out of the global economy, we will no longer have access to oil and gas. Then what do we do? Go back to bulock cuts. Go completely electric. Then what? Then okay, then how do we generate the electricity by burning coal? But is coal enough? So we have to be practical. We have to be realistic and we have to act in a manner that that ensures that we don't really get sanctioned. Right? Okay. MK says, "Why didn't the British Empire apply the Thusid trap logic to preemptively contain or attack Germany before the World Wars?" Um, well, now that's a lie. Okay. So, it depends on the leadership. It depends on a nation's leadership. If a leadership, if your nation's leadership isn't strong, if it is historically illiterate, if it doesn't realize, if it doesn't see the warning signs, then well, even if you are a powerful nation, you will be caught napping, right? So, I think that's what happened. Uh, of course the UK did realize that Germany before the second world war, before the first world war, the UK did realize that Germany is becoming a major maritime power. It's developing a first class navy especially those Ubot the undersea boats and so on and that's essentially and they started taking steps uh to to to militarize to militarize themselves and all. It's it's pretty complicated. The the First World War especially is an extraordinarily complicated complicated scenario. And what I can say in brief is that if your leadership isn't good enough and if if they don't see the warning signs and if they see the warning signs and don't realize what the warning signs are telling you, then yeah, then you'll be caught napping. And that's kind of what happened. And even when Hitler started remilitarizing Germany, I mean Germany was not supposed to militarize as per the agreement that they had the treaty of Versailles and so on. But Hitler started Hitler started militarizing Germany and he and he uh rescued the economy which was which was in a terrible state and you could see that Germany is militarizing. Germany is becoming more and more aggressive and assertive and uh dangerous. But what would what did Chamberlain do? So he went and tried to negotiate and came back with a piece of paper. Here we have it. Germany has agreed to this or that. So it depends on the quality of your leadership and if your leadership isn't isn't good enough then yeah you're going to mess up. Geopolitical Dub says does Russia want India to be a major arms exporter? I don't think Russia will mind that. I don't think Russia will mind that as long as I mean see from Russia's perspective they have their biggest problem is the US obviously the entire western block which is led by the US all the other western nations are vasals of the US the EU NATO nations and other whatever the nations we have uh that's the first big and the biggest problem for Russia what's the second biggest problem for Russia it's China and Russia are natural adversaries they are long-term adversaries right now they are working together in what we call a modus vive uh because they have a bigger external threat. But if that external threat goes away, Russia and China will instantly transform into enemies. Just like in the second world war, the US and the USSR were allies, weren't they? But the moment the war ended, they became enemies, adversaries. That's the thing. So from Russia's perspective, if the US is taken out of the out of the equation, then China is the biggest threat. And what can counterbalance China in Asia? It's India. So if India gets stronger, if India becomes more powerful, if India becomes a proper major arms exporter, the Russians won't mind it because India and Russia have are not at loggerheads in anything. We have no points of disagreement. We have not no significant major disputes of any kind. Right. And if India becomes a major arm exporter, Russia won't mind importing arm from us either. So Russia will be okay with it. They will not mind. All right. Tarun says, "If all Middle Eastern countries were to unite like they did under the Abbasad Khalifhat, would such a union be as powerful and dominant today as it was in Abbasid times? What would be the major geopolitical consequences?" The Abbasid caliphate. The Abbasid caliphate. We had the Umayyad, we had the Rashidun, Abbasid. Let's just quickly look at the time period of the Abbasid Caliphate. Uh, one second. Let me see. Omayad Rashidun Abbasid. Abasid is just before the first invasions of India, right? Abasid caliphate. Yeah, there we have it. one u and it was brought to the brought to an end by by hleu Khan's capture and and destruction of of Baghdad. Kleu Khan was uh a descendant probably a grandson of great probably grandson of Shir Chingghis Khan. Uh yeah so it replaced the Umyad caliphate in 750 CE and it was the caliphate under which the first raids on India on Sind happened. So look and and if you look at this, yeah, it was a pretty big uh unified block. Do we have a better larger map? Yeah, here we have it. So they controlled much of North Africa, the entirety of uh the entirety of the Arabian Peninsula, mo mostly most of the Arabian Peninsula. They had also conquered Persia sadly and they were infringing on the borders of India. They had already absorbed Sind and so on. This was the Abbasad Khalif at its greatest ex greatest extent more or less. So the question we have to ask ourselves my friends is what made the Abbasid Khalifhat so powerful? How was it able to expand so much and conquer so much territory just because you had all these regions unified under it? Was that why it was powerful or were these regions unified under it because it was so powerful? So why did the Arabs become this dominant force? First of all, it was Islam that that unified them and it gave them this this uh this militaristic ideology that everything needs to be conquered, everything needs to be destroyed, right? Um the world is there, it exists for you to conquer it and your purpose is to convert the entire world to Islam. That sort of thing. So that gave them this militaristic zeal and they they they they were a desert people. They were used to hardship and they were used to a regimented disciplined militaristic life and when that is combined with this religious zeal and good tactics and strategies then you know you can do wonders militarily. So that's how they were able to do that and at the time Persia was kind of weak and the North African region was also you know not unified under any any single you know empire or whatever and then Egypt was was also weak and that's why they were able to conquer so much of the world and they were able to make raids into India as well the western parts of India so they were successful because and of course they had good technologies and all that as well uh techn technologically they were pretty good for for for that time probably some of the best technology they of of the time they they were employing those so that's why they became so powerful and that's why they were able to conquer so much of the world now but today if the Middle Eastern countries were to unite somehow okay just like under the Abbasad Khalifhat would that union be as so at that time the Abbasad Khalifhat was probably the most powerful um geopolitical entity in the possibly right now if these Middle Eastern countries were to come together unite under a single let's say emperor Khalif again today will they suddenly become as you know the most dominant geopolitical force in the world they won't they won't China will still be more powerful than them Russia will be more powerful than them none of the Middle Eastern countries, Islamic countries possesses the nuclear bomb, right? And Pakistan won't become part of this because the Americans won't allow that to happen. So you have a big block of nations that have combined together to create a new caliphate, but they don't have the military might. They don't have the best technology. Uh they may have some of them may have F-16s or whatn not but the Americans can kill those with the kill switch and then the F-16s become museum pieces. They won't take off or even if they take off they won't lock onto targets the Americans don't want them to lock lock on to so militarily they're toothless. They have some manpower but in today's world the manpower doesn't matter. It's technology that matters and they don't have the nuclear bomb. So what do they do? Even with a large portion of the world unified under a caliphate, it will not be a powerful force. There will be no major geopolitical con consequences. Yeah, they could kind of control much of the world's oil and so on. So that could give them some leverage as a bargaining chip, but not to that extent because the US is completely self-sufficient when it comes to oil and gas. So is Russia. Uh it would give them some leverage over India and China. So that would be the it would be more of u energy sort of leverage and a little bit of geoeconomic leverage but not not really any military leverage and that too not over the US but over India and China and maybe some EU nations. So overall it will not make much of a much of a difference. It will be nowhere as powerful as the Abbasid caliphate was but an interesting thought experiment for sure. Aries Manticor says, "Could a dollarbacked cryptocurrency create a dark economy?" A dollarbacked cryptocurrency, could it create a dark economy? It's a parallel economy. It's not a dark economy. Uh so we have cryptocurrencies that exist in the world today. We have Bitcoin, we have Ethereum, we have all kinds of other various other currencies of various kinds. Um, and you can use those currencies to trade with people who accept those currencies. And by doing that, you can bypass uh the the the US dollar-based financial system. You can bypass it for sure. So that's a parallel economy essentially. It's not a dark economy and it's pretty secure actually if you know what you're doing. But if you have a dollarbacked cryptocurrency, then it becomes nothing but an extension of the US dollar's hedgemony, right? Because see, right now the US dollar is it could become worthless if all it takes is for the nations to stop trading in the US dollar and then the US dollar becomes worthless because it is not backed up by anything tangible. It's not backed up by gold like it used to be until the until the early '7s. Until the early '7s, the US had committed that it will keep gold reserves equal to the amount of dollar bills in circulation. So if one dollar bill was equivalent to X amount of gold, X grams of gold, then and if you have X so much dollars in circulation, then the US was required by law to maintain that much gold, physical gold in their coffers. But after after Nixon came to power, he ended that and the US dollar became a free flowing free free floating currency. Not backed up by anything. It was backed up by petroleum for a while. It was called the petro dollar. Today it's backed up by nothing. It's backed up by the US military might and nothing else. Uh so if the Americans create a dollarbacked cryptocurrency, then once again that cryptocurrency is backed up by the US military might and all it takes is for people to just ignore it and not not trade in in it to to make it worthless. So it won't create a dark economy. It may at most at best create a parallel economy which will be tied to the actual economy and that defeats the purpose of cryptocurrency. So yeah, it won't really make sense for people who want to trade in cryptocurrency cryptocurrencies to use that dollar backed cryptocurrency because then you are defeating the purpose of creating crypto cryptocurrencies in the first place. Dr. Rita Debnat says, "Why is the US interested in entering the dairy business in India? Do they really think they can provide our population with milk daily? What's the foul play here?" Um, the US wants to enter every aspect of the Indian economy because uh they want to turn India into a giant market. First of all, a dumping ground for their products so that they can extract value out of India. And when it comes to dairy and agriculture, uh their products are genetically modified, their cows have been genetically modified, their crops have been genetically modified. These are laboratory laboratory experiments that they're playing. And you can see the consequences of that in the average health of the average person in the US. Everybody is unhealthy. All the meat they eat is is messed up. All the dairy they drink is messed up. The the all their food products are are toxic, filled with chemicals and god knows what. And these genetic experiments, they could end up creating all kinds of downstream effects which would be extremely dangerous uh for people. So they want to get that into India and that is something that is that that the government of India is obviously resisting because it makes sense to resist that we don't want our population to fall prey to all this. So the reason they want to do this is they want to they they they want to essentially well there's no better way of saying it. They want to poison us. Yeah. The way they have poisoned their people, they want to bring that into India. And obviously there could be some um patented product products that they will push into India. So on the one hand they extract money out of India by selling their substandard and in poisoned stuff and secondly they get to poison the people of India and uh yeah create long-term genetic problems in India. So one of the things the British did in India okay was by by imposing two and a half centuries of famine on the Indian population they changed the food habits of Indians. The Indian diet became extremely heavily carbohydrate dependent. If you see the Indian diet today it's all carbohydrates. There's hardly any protein. And because of this, Indians are extremely are are way more susceptible to diabetes than other other populations in the world because of the two and a half centuries of starvation that the British imposed on India. So that kind of changed the genetics of India. Now the Americans want to do it in in a different way by specifically targeting you know certain genetics using genetically modified dairy products and and and agricultural products. So it's it's something that India should resist. We should not agree to import this garbage and that seems to be the bone of contention right now when it comes to the trade deal trade talks with India and between India and the US. The trade talks have stalled from what I hear. They're not progressing because the Americans are insisting that India should accept their agricultural exports and we are saying we will not do that. So that's the that's the deal. Okay. Shivan Bakshi says interesting UK, France are going down the hill with immigration. There's nothing they can do but the US can kick illegals with a whim. Pardon my French. You haven't used any French. So, okay. So, the US can kick illegals out anytime. Yeah. Trump wants to kick all the illegals out. That's what he has kept on saying, but how many have they actually deported? Trump came to power in January this year. How many illegal immigrants of the Americans kicked out thus far? There has been some some action possibly on that, but I'm not sure. They have deported like tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands thus far. It is believed that during the Biden Biden administration's four years in power, several million undocumented illegal immigrants were allowed to were brought into the US by the Biden administration mainly mainly through the southern border with Mexico. How many of these have been deported? I'm not sure. A lot have been. But if Trump wants, I'm sure he can get everyone deported. But the UK and France aren't allowed to do that. The EU nations aren't allowed to do that. Um there's nothing they can do. So that's how it goes. See, this is what you could call demographic re-engineering of Europe that is being done. And obviously uh the root cause of all of that is the US. The US is the overlord of Europe. The major power in Western Europe is the US. It's not Germany. It's not France. It's not the UK. It is the US. it's the US and whatever is being done to Europe is being done at the behest of the US. So yeah, they are re-engineering the demographics of Europe and there's nothing the European nations can do about this. And this is all being done via Brussels which is the headquarters of the EU. And uh if you are a member of the EU then you are not sovereign because the policies that will apply to your nation and it that will apply to your population your public will be decided outside of your country. They'll be decided in Brussels. So you are you don't have territorial sovereignty you don't have legislative sovereignty either. Um and that's how you can mess up an entire nation's demographic. So that's what's being done. Backbenture academy lover says how geopolitically relevant is astrology vast etc. I have absolutely no idea. Sorry. Arun says why are Iranian Shia Muslims who migrated to India in huge numbers equal to Pakistan's Pakistanis and Afghans not viewed as a concern despite strong religious cultural and ideological ties to Iran a key geopolitical prayer player look I don't talk about about religious matters and all I I'm not sure about this this is something I'm not aware of okay um yeah this is something that I don't look into religious aspects and Hindu Muslim stuff and Shia versus Sunni and the difference between Shia people and Sunni people and all that. I I am not aware of this. Sorry, I won't be able to answer this question because I'm I'm not aware of this. Sorry. Above says, "What power is behind mass immigration in Europe?" The United States. As simple as that. Godliness says reports mention French naval data including their nuclear submarine details have been leaked. Of course to be leaked they have to be hacked. Right. There are reports mentioning US and Israeli links to this leak. Are Indians Corpin class submarine details also at risk is the question. So yes uh today one woke up when one heard to the news that u French naval data has been leaked including details about the nuclear submarines. Um and there have been reports I don't know I've not seen the reports but yeah I mean I'm hearing chatter I'm hearing whispers that maybe the US and the Israelis are behind this. Do we know who's behind this? We don't know. But could the US and Israel be behind this? Possibly. Well, possibly. It's always a possibility. Maybe Russia is behind it. Maybe China is behind it. Maybe the US may be behind. Maybe the Israelis may be behind it. But logically, who could it be is the question logically? Let's think about this logically. What happened recently between France and Israel? Well, recently Mu Mak the French president, he officially recognized the state of Palestine. He recognized Palestine as a nation. Is Palestine a nation? Is it? It's not a nation. Where is the nation of Palestine? Where does it exist? Is it Gaza? That little little square piece of land, is that the nation of Palestine? Is the West Bank of the River Jordan, is that what is Palestine? Has something called Palestine existed historically? Has there ever been a kingdom or an empire or a nation of called Palestine? Where does this name Palestine come from? It comes from the Philistine people who existed in in the region of Israel about 2 and a half thousand years ago. What does that have to do with the Arabs who claim to be Palestinians? I so this so the French have gone ahead and taken this step. They have recognized the state of Palestine and obviously Israel is super upset about that. I I would not blame them for that. Right now, does this concern me? It doesn't concern me. It's something that's between the two nations, France and Israel. Okay? So, that's their problem. That's their bilateral problem, let's say, from my perspective. And it doesn't have anything to do with us. Now if France takes this kind of step which is you could say a hostile and aggressive step towards Israel then should Israel just sit back and take it given Israel's history do you think they will not retaliate in some way? Historically Israel has retaliated whenever somebody has taken hostile steps against them. So maybe maybe possibly perhaps Israel could potentially be behind this, but it's pure speculation. There is no evidence of that, right? Uh so yeah, possibly possibly Israel could perhaps hypothetically be behind this. I'm not saying it is. I'm not saying it isn't. I'm saying there's a possibility. Now the Indian scorpion class submarine. So uh we have a bunch of scorpion class submarines that we operate. These are a French design. These were built I think yeah there are definitely at least a few of them were built in India. Um and uh the design is a French design uh the scorpion class. So is are are submarines also at le risk because of the data that was leaked out? I am not sure but possibly they could there could be some sensitive data that may have leaked out. Um if if if data corresponding to scorpion class submarines as a as a class is leaked out that will definitely apply to Indian scorpion class submarines as well even if they have been modified in some way and to be and tailored specifically for for India but some of the specific specifications will remain the same. So I think there's a possibility that some data pertinent to Indian scorpion class submarines may also have been leaked out as part of this wider leak of French naval data. So the Indian Navy, the Indian government need to look into it very very very very seriously and take whatever action needs to be taken ASAP as soon as possible. Right. Okay. Draj Kamat says Israel is currently attacking Syria apparently with the Drews genocide unlike India with respect to Bangladesh Hindus. Yeah, we aren't doing a thing about the genocide of Bangladesh Hindus in Bangladesh. Yeah, this is despite them being geopolitical allies apparently. What are my thoughts? Okay, let's take a look at the map so that we can uh orient and locate orient ourselves and locate the region we are talking about. So if you look here, you will see that Israel and Syria are neighboring countries. Okay, here we have Israel and we have Jordan. And if you go to the northern part of of Israel, you will see that it's it's got a border with Syria. The border obviously is all dashed up and all that. And Israel has been somewhat expanding its border eastwards to a to some extent possibly. Okay. And uh for the longest time we had the Assad regime in Syria, the the government of Mr. al-Assad Bashar al-Assad and uh a few months ago there was a coup regime regime change operation successful regime operation that happened and Mr. Bashar al-Assad had to flee to Moscow and a terrorist has come to power in Damascus. His name is Al Julani or something Alulani. His actual name is Al- Shara. Uh yeah, I don't get these are all foreign names so I'm I'm not good at speaking these names. But yeah, let's call him Mr. Alulani. He is a former wanted terrorist. I think a $10 million bounty on his head. But now he's an ally of the West. And uh let's let's see uh what Mr. Trump has done recently. Okay. So Trump golani al-Sh posing with a terrorist uh Trump al-Shar shah so we have Mr. Donald Trump, the president of the US, posing with a person who was until recently regarded as a terrorist by the United States. There we have it. So now, so that means that uh this terror, this former terrorist is now a western ally, a US ally, right? And if he's an ally of the US, well, it technically makes him an ally of Israel because the US is Israel's number one ally. And that that means that any American ally will automatically be regard should be regarded as as an Israeli ally. So you have Golani who is in power in Damascus and uh he's running the country and Israel bombed Damascus just a few days ago and Israel is is conducting military operations in Syria and the justification being given is that the the al-Shani regime is conducting a genocide of the Drews people. So what's going on is the question. What exactly is going on? If this guy is your ally, if you have an allied government there, then let them do what they want. Why are you why are you attacking them? So you know, and who are these Drews people? The Drews people are an Arabic people who practice an Abrahamic religion called the Drews religion. And it's not Islam. It's a different religion. And uh if you are a Syri a terrorist like Alara, you will regard the Drews people as non-Muslims and I suppose they're supposed to be killed apparently according to their ideology. I don't know. I don't get it. But that's how it works for them. So there's a genocide possibly going on of the Drews people. They are being attacked and they're being killed and all that and Israel possibly is taking action because of that. Is is that really why Israel is attacking Syria or does Israel have some other geopolitical agenda? So, some people allege, some people claim that Israel wants to expand its territory and create a greater Israel. That's what some people claim. Is it true? Well, I don't know about that. Some people make that allegation. And some people put out a map of greater Israel, which kind of includes large areas of Syria. Is that the reason why Israel is doing this? I don't know. We'll have to wait and watch. Okay. Uh so the official reason possibly is that this is being done to stop the genocide of the Drews people and some people are alleging that Israel wants to expand its territory. We'll have to wait and watch and see what's really happening. Koshel Panchchal. Thank you very much sir. Thank you. Uh Aintan says what are websites that one should use to research geopolitics in history as many of the books are agendadriven. So first of all um okay we'll talk about geopolitics here. History that's a whole different story. We are not discussing history today. Let's talk about geopolitics. What websites can you use to research geopolitics and what books can you read to research? Okay books. You're not asking about books. First of all there are no books about geopolitics. Have you seen a textbook of geopolitics anywhere in the world? there there's no textbook of geopolitics. Are there any courses in universities that teach you geopolitics? I don't think so. You generally are taught strategy, military history, military tactics and strategy. You taught history, but you I have never seen any any any course in geopolitics. So there aren't really any books on geopolitics. If you want to read books on geopolitics, you have to read books that are related to military strategy, books that are related to diplomacy, the books that are related to uh foreign policy. And using all this together, you kind of form an idea of what geopolitics is kind of like. But the best way to study geopolitics is to study a lot of history. And then you kind of start seeing the patterns and the cyclical nature of things. Now, what websites can you use to research geopolitics? I suppose you just read the news. read the news and form try and form patterns and connections because there's no geopolitics website. Is there a website called geopolitics.com or whatever? There are some think tanks, right? Um there are some think tanks that do exist that do discuss foreign policy matters. uh and then then there are some publications like what foreign policy.com or something and uh so as far as India is concerned I don't know of any any major think tank or publication that deals with uh foreign policy issues and geopolitical issues but from the US there are many there's the Atlantic which is which used to be great in the past not so great these days there's the national interest that talks about the American national interest and geopolitics from that perspective There is foreign policy I believe that all of that is from the American perspective. There's ASPI I forget it's an Australian thing that's a think tank that put puts forth policy I mean policy recommendations and uh deep dive analysis of various geopolitical things you know all there is that and what else yeah so you have to read all of these all of this and and keep keep track of what these people are recommending of obviously there's rand corporation which is uh which has now turned into a US propaganda outlet kind of. It used to be highly respectable in the past, but it has a dodgy history which I'll not go into right now. So yeah, that's what you do. I suppose that's what you do. Baratia says Russia may forment problems for us internally or geopolitically more than US or China if we were to develop undemand crude reserves into a full OMG ecosystem as they will lose significant revenue. No, no, no. They won't. They won't. See, first of all, if we do, if we do um let's say discover significant reserves of of oil of crude oil in the Andermans. First of all, any such discovery hasn't been announced. We are drilling in the Andermans and it's possible that we may find something. I've been saying this for a long time. If we start drilling everywhere, we'll find more oil and gas than than in the Persian Gulf and Arabian Peninsula region. I'm sure we will. So, I think it's a matter of time before we find some some major crude oil discovery. If that happens, we become energy self-sufficient in energy. We potentially may become an exporter of energy. But to reach that state of becoming self-sufficient and then becoming an exporter will take at least 10 years, 5 10 years at least because you have to first discover the oil reserves. Then you have to go and uh you know create those those oil rigs on top of that which can be used to extract the oil. Then then you have to develop the refineries which can refine all of that crude oil into finished products. All of that process all of the setting up of the infrastructure all all of that will take 5 10 years minimum right and so it won't happen overnight that today India is purchasing tremendous amounts of Russian Russian crude and tomorrow morning we stop everything won't happen like that it'll be a slow gradual process and if India becomes self-sufficient in energy it's great for India it's also great for Russia yeah sure they will lose out on some revenue but it's not India's fault and secondly it'll make India much stronger nation compared to China because China doesn't have self-sufficiency in terms of energy but if India becomes self-sufficient in terms of energy it gives India significant energy advantage and overall geopolitical advantage over China which is great for Russia so Russia won't mind it they won't forment any problems for us internally or geopolitically they have never done that so I I don't foresee that this to be a problem at all Rahul Lakshmanan says is China likely to view us India India as a rival against the west or a bulv war against the west in the near to midterm China will always see India as a rival. Okay. Even when there is maybe a kaposhimo maybe the tant maybe a diplomatic th whatever you want to call it between India and China will always regard India as a rival. China may try and use India use India as a bulv war to some extent against the west. Perhaps they may try to do use it use us in that manner but note the word use. They will try to use us against somebody. They'll never try to help us. So, and I'm not sure if if it's even a good idea for us to, you know, allow China to export stuff to us in large large quantities because they have this uh over capacity in manufacturing and they need to export their stuff somewhere. Now, it's not no longer possible to export their their Fedish products to the west anymore because of the trade war, the tariff war that's going on. So, they would like to do that to India. But if they start dumping their products into India, it will kill Indian manufacturing. So I don't think it's a good idea. I don't think it's a good idea for us to go down that road. Then we will remain dependent on some foreign country or the other. For us, it's imperative to become completely self-sufficient in terms of manufacturing, in terms in in in when it comes to technology. We cannot remain dependent on other countries. Uh so China will always regard India as a rival and China will have to be regarded as a rival by us always no matter what is currently going on. Currently they have been friendly to us. So what we are natural adversaries and natural rivals as long as China occupies Tibet. The moment China withdraws from Tibet we can be friends again. But as long as they are in occupation of Tibet India and China are natural rivals. All right. IC MBS says subs or aircraft carriers. What's more important? Subs. Always subs. Aircraft carriers are good to have. When you are a $30 trillion economy, when you are the most powerful nation in the world and nobody dares to dares to try and hit you, that's when you can use aircraft carriers to bully others to display force to to as a show of force as for the purpose of power projection. But you will see that aircraft carriers will not be used even by the US in contested waters. They'll stay away from contested waters. Have you seen aircraft carriers being deployed near Yemen by the Americans? They've stayed away from Yemen. Okay. Aircraft carriers cannot be used in contested waters, in contested airspace. Dangerous. Super dangerous. Submarines. You can sneak a submarine into into the enemy's harbor if you want. The submarine is the most dangerous asset a navy can have. Aircraft carriers are good to have. It's prestigious and you can use that to bully the weak. But you can't use them in contested waters or contested airspace. Always submarines. And I hope the Indian Navy understands this. Karthik says who will win the Muslim caucases like Dagistan, Chachchna, Ingushyak etc. Turkey, Iran, Russia in terms of geopolitical dominance. Look when it comes to Dagistan, Cheschna, Ingusetya, all of that it all belongs to Russia. You think Turkey and Iran are in a position to win that from Russia? Absolutely not. Right. Right. Let's go to the map. Let me show you. Okay. It's it's not a bad question actually. Let's take a look at because because most people don't know about what is Inguushetya, what is Chichchna, what is Dagistan. So we're talking about the Caucasus region over here. See you see this place Makkala that is Dagistan. It's the largest city possibly the capital of the region of Dagistan. When it comes to Cheschna, the capital is Grozni. This here, that's Cheschna. These are Muslim regions. Okay? These people were converted to Islam in the past few centuries. Uh which one was converted more recently, Chachchna or Dagasan? I don't remember. Ingushetya. Let's look for Ingushya. Ingushetya once again is this little region over here. Pretty small region. And so that's what we're talking about. These are the the so-called small republics of Cheschna, Dagistan, uh, Ingosetia and so on. And all of this belongs to Russia. Turkey is in no position to take this from Russia. Neither is Iran. And that, I suppose, is the answer. That's it. Right. So it it belongs to Russia and it's it's not contested at all in any any any manner. Right. Okay. What else do we have? We have here this here. Aishwari Nagar says, "Can India regain its power status given the fact that we are surrounded by hostile/failed nations?" By the way, the UK lost that that that status just because its enemies were nearby. The UK lost its status because its enemies were nearby. Yeah. Which enemies were nearby? The UK lost its uh empire. Yeah, it did. The UK was the dominant superpower of the world until the 1930s or so, maybe 1910, 1920s. But it's started its power started waning. Now it lost its imperial status to somebody else. Who was that? It was the US. Is the US near the UK? The US is far far from the UK. What other nations were nearby? Yeah, we had the Second World War. Germany and historically France was the enemy of was for a thousand years an enemy of the UK. But that has nothing to do with the UK losing its dominant status. It has nothing to do with that. So I'm not sure what the parallels are over here. Uh can India regain its power status? Which status are you talking about? The past 1,000 years roughly various parts of India were under foreign occupation. Right? Uh of course the whole of India wasn't under foreign occupation a thousand years ago but it started with the fall of Gandhar. So that's where the first encroachment happened and then slowly the Turks made inroads into India and and you know what happened. So we started losing our territories more than a thousand years ago and our power was declining ever since. So what power status are you talking about? Are you talking about the the Morian times when Ashok was in power? Emperor Ashok, one of our greatest emperors. Are you talking about the times of Kaneshka? Are you talking about the Chola times? Are you talking about the Marata times? I'm I'm not sure what. We are a reasonably powerful nation. But obviously if you're talking about power status, are you talking about India becoming the most powerful country in the world? We are a reasonable power reasonably powerful nation. But we are not anywhere close to being the most powerful nation. Can we become the most powerful nation one day? It's possible. Anything is possible. But how do we do it is the question. You become powerful through technology. Today we are trying to replicate technology other nations have developed 20, 30, 40 years ago, right? Jet engines for example. What's what else? Nuclear reactors, fighter planes. What other nations did 20, 30, 40 years ago, we are trying to do it today. We're trying to play catchup. We're trying to develop LLMs, AI that other nations have done. Now the AI time time frames are significantly significantly compressed. So the way to become the most powerful nation is by developing the best technology in the world. Today the differentiator when it comes to power is technology. Imagine tomorrow India develops the technology. Let's say let me give you a completely fictional hypothetical science fiction example. Let's say India develops anti-gravity technology tomorrow. That way with that technology we can lift any amount of matter into space in a matter of minutes thousand tons to space into into earth orbit. Sure let's do it. That would give India complete domination of the space domain which would be a gamecher. It would transform India into superpower overnight. Right? Technology is the differentiator. That's what we need to do. But for that we need to reform our education system so that the Indian genius can can be unleashed. Right? So a lot of reforms will have to be done and if we do that then yeah we can certainly become the most powerful nation in the world. [Applause] Napoleon Singh Shikhawad says, "Was Nasir Nosher Gawadia framed? Was China and the US involved in the guy who developed stealth technology? Is that who you're referring to?" Let me quickly Google him. Pretty obscure name, but there was a guy who developed stealth technology for the US. Noshir go. Exactly. This is the guy who was instrumental in developing stealth technology for the United States. He was born in Mumbai. He was Indian. He migrated to the US in 1963. And he was one of the principal designers of the B2 Spirit stealth bomber. He conceived and conceptually designed the B2 bomber's entire propulsion system. This guy. Okay. and he was arrested for being a spy in 2005 and was convicted. I suppose he is in prison right now. He is currently incarcerated in some some whatever prison in the US 32 years in prison. So was he framed? I have no idea. I don't know. He was interviewed twice, blah blah blah, etc., etc., etc. Trial and so on. Uh so so allegedly he transferred some some technology in he sold classified information to China and to individuals in Germany, Israel in Switzerland. Is it true? Is it not true? Was he framed? I don't know. But yes, I I remember that. Yeah. So the name the moment you said noir Gowardia, I was like yeah, I think that's the case you're talking about. the guy who developed the B2 stealth bomber, the propulsion system, stealth technology, because that is part of the stealth characteristics. So, I don't know. I don't know if the China if if he was framed or not. Maybe he was. I don't know. Anonymous scientist says, "We know a lot about the deep state in the US and China. Which other nations have a strong deep state? How much power do they wield?" Do we know that the Chinese have a deep state? When you talk about deep state, the only nation you're talking about is the US. You're not referring to China. When you say deep state, what deep state does the ch does do the Chinese have? They have the Chinese Communist Party. We know where the power lies. It lies in the Chinese Communist Party's polit bureau and in the emperor, the the Mr. Xinping and whoever will eventually replace Mr. Xinping. That's where the power lies. There's nothing. There's no hidden power in China. As far as we know, nobody refers to some hidden power center in China. When you talk about the deep state, you're only referring to the US. You're not talking about the the Chinese or any other European country or anything else. Um, and listen, when you ask me about what how much power does any other deep state yield, you asking me as if I am aware of, okay, this is the deep state. These are the members and this is how much power they have and how much money they have. A deep state is supposed to be something completely hidden. How will I know about this? How will I know about this? I I am very honored that you think that I may know about it, but I don't. Come on. I only know what's accessible in the public domain. And even if I were to know possibly about something, do you think I would be stupid enough to speak about this in public? If you know about it, you don't speak about it. You do not. What is the first rule of F club? You do not speak about flight club. Okay. Rashi Kudin says France recognized Palestine but also support Israel rights thoughts. Yeah. I'm not sure what what the French are up to, what Mu is attempting to perform. What is it trying to do? It's it's signaling. It's it's virtue signaling. um by recognizing a f fictional country that doesn't exist. What are you trying to achieve? You're trying to signal something. You're trying to send a message to whoever. Some of it is virtue signaling. Some of that may stem from an antipathy possibly between the two lead between the two leaders. I'm not sure what it is. Um the France obviously also supports Israel's right to exist of course, right? and for Israel's right to defend itself from terrorists any any civilized nation has to support that right uh so yes France I'm not sure why they have taken the step of recognizing Palestine and they seem to they seem to have got immediate blowback from somewhere with the leakage of all that classified naval information right my thoughts I I mean I'm not sure what they are trying to achieve by doing this what's the point it's a fictional nation it doesn't exist Darth V says, "Do you agree that the that the US is the biggest sponsor of terrorism?" Look, I'll tell you what. It is undeniable that the US funded and financed Pakistani terrorism against India for several decades. No question about that. Pakistan is the world's biggest state sponsor of terror the biggest exporter of terrorism the biggest creator and exporter of terrorism that's Pakistan and its primary patron was the US for several decades even today the US is the overlord of Pakistan so that's what I will tell you that's that is undeniable even the Americans can't deny this that they funded and financed Pakistani terrorism for decades beyond that I'll go into other matters. Backbenture Academy lover says, "Please tell your thoughts on Vasu." I don't know, sir, anything about Vasu. I don't know anything about astrology. I have never read a single page about Vasu or astrology, let alone a book. I have absolutely zero knowledge about Vasu, about astrology and whatever else may be related to that. So, I am sorry. I am not the right person to ask this questions. I'm going to talk about geopolitics today. Let us stick to geopolitics. Thank you and sorry I can't answer this question because I don't have any knowledge. Okay. Look, I am taking questions about geopolitics today. I have said that very clearly. That's what the audience is here to watch. I have announced one week ago that this super chat episode is a geopolitics episode. So all the viewers who are watching this right now and who will watch this after it is when it is after it is live people will watch it later also they will come because they will see the title geopolitics but if I start talking about vastu I start talking about astrology I start talking about satwanas and history then I am I'll be disappointing my audience right so please I have said this very clearly I will not take questions that are not related to geopolitics I've even put a pinned comment but still you are doing this. I'm happy to answer history questions in other live streams but please respect my dear friends the fact that this is a geopolitics liveream okay I will take this question in a future live stream which will be open to other topics I'll be happy to right now I can't take this okay current says I have visited Iran it's false that Iran has that Islam has faded from Iran Shiraas, Toberis and Ishan were packed with devout Shia during Muharam. I haven't seen a mass such a massive crowd such massive crowds before. Can Iran still be seen as a lasting Shia geopolitical force? Well, I haven't visited Iran. So, I think you have be better firsthand knowledge of Iran than me. Okay, I have to give that to you. And you went to Shirro's Torres is Fhon and you saw large crowds crowds like you have never seen before. Does that mean that the entirety of Iran is represented by what you saw in those three four places? doesn't mean that let's say what's okay let's see okay let's let's quickly look into this h let's do a Google search shir shir population 2025 what's the population uh 1.7 million let's say you are you saw a crowd of 300,000 three lakh people. That's a gigantic ginormous crowd. Maybe you show a crowd of 500,000. Half a million. I mean I I can't imagine a crowd of 500,000. So even that is less than one/ird of the population of what about to population? It is 1.7 million. Let's say you crowd of you saw a crowd of 300,000. How? It's it's about 1 16th of the population of Tabris. What's is Fahhan? Is Fahan? 2.33 million. So these are enormous populations each of these cities and you saw pretty large crowds. Does it mean that everybody in that city is just as devout? Let's say I have a city of 1 million people and 200,000 of those or let's say half a million of those are devout Shia Muslims and when there is a muharam whatever they will come out in big in a big procession and maybe three lakh come out that's that's a huge crowd but still it means that half the city may not be that devout right so I know you experience something incredible but it doesn't nec necessarily mean that that the whole of Islam, the whole of Iran is super Islamic and all that. Okay? Please don't allow your personal experiences to cloud your judgment. I understand the fact that you have been there. I haven't been there. So, you have better firsthand knowledge. But sometimes your firsthand knowledge will cloud your perception of what statistics may represent. So I I am hearing anecdotal evidence, okay, that Islam is possibly fading from Iran, that maybe half of Iran no long the half of the Iranian population no longer uh actively practices is Islam. That's what I hear now. Even that is hearsay. So even that may not be true, right? So I think the the truth may lie somewhere in between. But uh so that's what I can say. So my point is don't let your personal experiences uh cloud your judgment. Right. What do we have? What else do we have? One second. Let me find the next question. Abhinab says, "Thoughts on US Golden Dome? Will it enable the US to launch nuclear strikes without worrying about retaliatory nuclear strikes by China or Russia?" No. No matter how good your missile defense system is, it is not foolproof. It is not guaranteed to be 100% effective. Okay. The US Golden Dome. What is it like? Let's once again let's let's Google it. US Golden Dome. Dome. Dome. It's a proposed missile defense system. Uh layered defense system. Defense system. Global constellation of satellites. Sensors space-based. Oh my god. They're going to militarize space. Very good. Then don't blame others. Then later detect and destroy incoming missiles including B. So it it reminds me of something that was very very hyped up in the 1980s when I was a little kid. There was Star Wars. Reagan Star Wars. One second. Yeah. Reagan Star Wars strategic defense initiative derisively nicknamed the Star Wars program and I remain the I remember these these um yeah these graphics they had put out. So I'm not I'm not saying that because Star Wars did not work and all it means that Golden Dome won't work but this is a proposed missile defense system. I don't know how long it'll take and no matter how good your missile defense system is, it is not guaranteed to take to to it's not guaranteed to destroy all incoming bogeies. All right. And it's it's going to be a multi-layered defense system. So some of the interception will be done by space-based assets like satellites. So they are militarizing space. Then they can't blame other countries for militarizing space in return. So some of the interceptions may be done in space by space- based assets. Some of them may be done by groundbased assets like you know missiles that you launch from the ground. There may be laser systems in there. So it's a it's a multi-layered defense system which makes sense but even then it's not necessary that it it will intercept everything. So it will definitely give the US possibly much better defense against incoming missiles than they have right now but it will not guarantee 100% interception rate. Um and obviously when you def when you design and and implement a multi-layered defense system like this, your adversaries will go hard at will will be hard at work immediately to design systems that will bypass that. It's always a cat and mouse game. I'm developing a better defense system. So my adver advertisers will come to know about that and they will start developing better missile systems that will bypass my defenses. Then I understand what defense what missiles they're developing. So I'll try and augment my defense system and they will come to hear about it. So they will start augmenting their offensive systems as well. So it's a cat and mouse game. It doesn't guarantee anything for anybody. Okay. Ankita says there's an ongoing mass killing and brutal slaughtering of dus people uh who are minorities in Syria and uh the west is comfortably silent. Is this so is this the kind of regime change the west was advocating for so many years? What's my opinion? Well, that's what the west does. This is the standard time-tested timehonored modus operandi of the west. Do you know what happened in Indonesia in the 1950s? H let's let's Google this. I mean there's there's a humanitarian disaster happening right now in in in in uh in East Africa. No one knows about this. No one hears about this. But let's talk about Indonesia regime change Indonesia mid60s mid60s. So there was a transition from Sukarno's old order to Suharto's new o new new order. Um and it read it led to Suharto's rise to power in Sukarno's removal, authoritarian rule, suppression of descent, um transition to the new order and what happened as a consequence of this United States assistance to Suhartha. Oh, very nice. That's very good. Indonesian mass killings of foreign foreign involvement. Where is that? CIA activities. Very nice. Very nice. Indonesian mass killings of 1965-66. How many died? About between 500,000 to 1 million. Okay. Official figures. You have no idea the of the horrors that were unleashed in his in in Indonesia. as a consequence of this US mediated regime change stage operation. Horrific. And now today they make movies about this in the US. What was it called? The movie. I would not recommend anybody to watch that movie by the way. And it's a good thing I don't remember the name right now. So when the US does a regime change operation, it's natural for all kinds of barbaric things to happen. Absolutely natural. You have to understand it's it's it's a given. I mean when there was the the liberation of Libya from Muhammad Gaddafi, Muhammad Gaddafi was uh deposed and and brutally murdered, right, by the Americans? Then what happened? Was there a transition to democracy and freedom and human rights in Libya? No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Libya became an open slave market. What's the condition of Libya today? It's a hell hole. Who did that? The United States. When the US liberated uh Iraq from Shri Saddam Hussein, did what happened? Did you get freedom and human rights and democracy in in Iraq? Yeah. Today, apparently have elections in Iraq. Oh, great. What what what else happened? Iraq became a hell hole. So now you have so now you have Syria they have been trying to depose Bashar al-Assad since 2009 2010 thereabouts right that's when the whole so-called civil war started when the Americans started employing first al-Qaeda as an American proxy and then ISIS emerged out of nowhere again another US proxy and so on so now that Al Gulani or Al Shara whatever his name is has taken over former a terrorist. Well, now what do you expect? He's going to carry out whatever he wants to carry out. So, yeah, the Drews people are being first it was the Yazidis. So, when ISIS was slaughtering, enslaving, and whatever else they were doing to the Yazidis. Yeah. I mean, unspeakable atrocities and horrors, what was the US doing? Don't they believe in human rights and freedom and democracy? What did they do about the poor Yazidi people? I hear I I I read somewhere yesterday or day before yesterday a Yazidi woman was recently freed from 12 years of captivity, ISIS captivity just like last week. Imagine what what what she went through. So this is all the consequence of the American intervention wherever they intervene. So yeah and and what happens is that when when a US ally will will perpetrate all kinds of atrocities on on helpless people the western media will stay quiet about this so no one comes to know right absolute barbarity absolute hypocrisy that's that's the kind of regime change the west has been advocating for whenever the the west does regime change they give freedom to their new asset the new puppet dictator to do whatever he wants. It's a reward. And the and what they expect in exchange is that he will do whatever the west tells tells him to do. He will not stray from his path. As long as he will obey the orders of the west, he's allowed to do whatever he wants. That's how it goes. And that's what we are seeing in Syria. Prash Prasam Sony says, "How to raise standard of questions for you guys?" I don't know. I don't know man. I don't know. Ask ask whatever comes to your mind and I'll try and answer. Okay. Lakshmanasan says, "What with with major advances in drones, robotics, uh military technology, Turkey is expanding its influence across the Middle East and Europe. Could this mark the beginning of a neootoman geopolitical revival in the region? So Turkey is this strange nation. Strange. Why do I say strange nation? On the one hand, it has imperial ambitions. On the other hand, it is not fully sovereign. It's a member of NATO. Let's let's see this. Okay, let's Google this. See how many US nuclear weapons weapons in Turkey. There are an estimated 20 US nuclear weapons B61 gravity bombs stored at Inurik air base in Turkey. These weapons are part of a larger stockpile of US nuclear weapons deployed in blah blah blah all that they're stored in hardened b hardened bunkers and protected by electronic systems and US troops. How many US military bases bases in Turkey? There are at least two known US military installations in Turkey. Inik air base and Ismir air station. Further there is the Cucherik radar station and an Ankara support facility and in Churlik obviously you have US nuclear weapons there and so on and so forth. So Turkey is a nation that is not territorially or militarily sovereign because it has US military bases on its soil which automatically makes it a non-s sovereign nation and if it's a part of NATO NATO it means that its armed forces can come under the control of a foreign citizen at least some part of its armed forces will have to be commanded by a foreign citizen which means it's not fully militarily sovereign either. So you have that okay you have that Turkey is not fully sovereign but it has imperial ambitions. So if you look at the geographical location of Turkey it's Turkey you could say has a god-gifted geographical location. It it controls two of the most vital tro points in the Mediterranean region. First of all the strait of the Dardanels over here. Yeah this one. Then you have the sea of Marmara and then you have the Bosphorus strait. Two extremely vital geopolitical choke points and Turkey sits on top of these two choke points and by doing so it has been rent seeking for the past 70 80 years and that's why it's so important for NATO. So Turkey is not fully sovereign. It's a very important strategic location and uh it has imperial ambitions and it is doing well when it comes to technology. Yeah, they they are developing drones. They're developing fighter planes. The KHN the fifth generation Khan fighter plane which is still I think as far as I know it's still a prototype. Uh I'm not even sure if the prototype has flown but whatever. Uh drones they have good drones apparently. Well the Pakistanis used Turkish drones and we know what happened to those drones. Uh but maybe those are export versions and maybe the Turkish drones are good. Possibly we have to uh keep that in mind and allow for that possibility. Uh and Turkey is expanding its influence across the Middle East and Europe with US permission of course uh not really Europe that much but uh central Asia they're trying to wipe Armenia off out of the map of the world and they want to create a pan corridor that connects Turkey all the way to the various Turk nations central Asian nations. So all of this that taken together military technology, drones, robotics, geo geopolitical ambitions, all of that does it mean that there could be the beginning of a neo-toman geopolitical revival in the region? Only if the US allows it, only if the US allows it only if it aligns with US geopolitical objectives. Otherwise, there'll be no neo-toman geopolitical revival. And uh even if there's a Turkish geopolitical revival, it will not be allowed to take neo-toman dimensions or neo-toman uh or neotoman flavor. Yeah, it the Ottoman flavor will remain symbolic at best because otherwise that's a problem for the US. So yeah, it's complicated but Turkey is a US asset. It also is dying with Russia. It is doing things that the US doesn't like. For example, the purchase of the S400 system which displeased the US and which is why Turkey was not allowed to remain part of the F-35 program which I think is a good thing for Turkey actually because the F-35 is a flying trash can and so on. Yeah. MK says, "How did Israel acquire nukes?" Well, there are various stories. Uh how did the world come to know that that Israelis have nukes? There was um an Israeli traitor. The Israelis considered him to be traitor. His name was Bordeai Vanunu and he later changed his name to D David Crossman or something. He converted to Christianity and he was in prison because of what he did and so on. The Israelis were able to abduct him from Europe and bring him back to Israel and imprison him and he's right now in Israel. So that's how the world came to know about the Israeli nuclear program and there was an Israeli collaboration with South Africa I believe if I yeah it was with South Africa and somewhere in the 1960s or '7s there was this bunch of US satellites called the VA satellites that caught an incident in the southern Atlantic Ocean or double flash incident the VA incident those satellites actually physics story here these The satellite these satellites were put in orbit to to catch such incidents double flash. So whenever you have an atmospheric nuclear explosion that is a double flash event. There's an initial very initial very rapid flash and then there's a slower flash slower buildup which is the second flash. So a nuclear explosion atmospheric explosion has two flashes. It's a double flash incident. So the VA satellites were put in orbit to detect atmospheric nuclear tests that would be that the whoever would do it would try to hide. But these satellites ended up fi finding all these weird flashes across the cosmos and these turned out to be a new phenomenon called gamma ray bursts and that's still kind of a mystery to some extent in physics today in co in astrophysics but coming back to this there was a va incident in which there these satellites caught what looked like a nuclear test in the south southern Atlantic ocean a va incident 1979. Yes, an unidentified double flash of light detected by an American VA satellite and it was most likely u an atomic test done jointly by Israel and South Africa carried out jointly by South Africa and Israel. Now how did so that that's that's an interesting story I can give you. How did Israel acquire nukes? Who was it France that transferred technology? Was it the US that transferred technology? I'm not very clear about that but I suppose you can look it up. Okay. Godliness says we have at least 7 crore illegal aliens or geographical. Yeah, I agree with you but this is not a ge geopolitical question right now. Of course, this is an question of internal security but I will not take this today because we're discussing geopolitics today. Yeah, I agree. This this catastrophe has to stop and I agree with you. But beyond that, I'll not say anything right now. Uh Amisha says, "Is Trump making America alone again? Making America alone again? What's my take?" Well, America doesn't have a lot of friends right now, right? uh whichever nations were positively warmly inclined toward towards the US, they have all been alienated by Trump's actions, haven't they? Trump has been imposing these these these tariffs, pretty aggressive tariffs on US allies. These are armwisting tactics. These are bullying tactics. 50% tariffs on Brazil. I mean, what the hell? This is a US asset. It's a US vasal. It's a US ally. The EU is a US asset, a US vasal. And when you start treating your allies like this, it u whatever whatever warmth those those nations had towards you will evaporate. So they will comply with your demands because they are afraid of you because you are more powerful. But you will see all kinds of passive aggressive behavior after that. So wherever possible they will not cooperate with you. So yeah, Trump is I mean recently you had the the leader of Singapore saying that the world needs uh you need a world minus one which is one world minus America kind of trading order right financial order. So everyone's everyone is fed up with what Trump is doing. Uh the Americans they don't have a lot of friends right now because of the actions they're taking. So yeah, Trump is indeed making America alone. They are the most powerful nation. They have global power production capabilities. They have military bases across the world, which is why the world has to do what they say. But nobody will cooperate beyond what's required with the US. And yeah, that does indeed make America kind of alone in the world right now. So that's what Trump is doing. He's not doing his nation a favor. is destroying the the global order his nation created over the past 70 80 years is destroying it one single-handedly. Maybe that's why he was he has been made president. Maybe that's why the deep state made Trump president because they want the world order to be upended and and a new order to be created. Maybe that's his task. So he's doing a good job of of carrying out the orders of the deep state. Um but yeah, it's not doing his nation any favors. It's making his nation alone. So Trump is indeed making America alone again like you say. Nili says in the 9/11 attacks terrorists were most mostly Saudi Arabians. Still the US maintained friendly relations with Saudi Arabia. Why is that? Like oil can be acquired by other Gulf nations. So this is a mystery. I don't know the answer. Yeah, I don't know. Saudi Arabia is indeed a US uh protectorate, US vasal, US ally, whatever you want to say. Um and yeah, you see there was a previous bombing of the World Trade Center. The first bombing happened in 199. It was carried out by Ramsey Yusf or something. Let's Google that. So that that guy was a Pakistani. Okay. Uh Ramsey Ramsey Yousef a Pakistani convicted terrorist who was one of the main perpet the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. Is he alive? He's alive. Yeah, he's he's just 57 years old. So this guy was a Pakistani. He carried out the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, the bombing of a Philippine Airlines flight. He was a co-conspirator in some other Bojinka plot. um and so on and so forth. He was trying to set a bomb in a doll. Well, that's how nice that is. And he was extradited to the US. So this is a Pakistani terrorist who conducted a terrorist attack on the US. Well, why did the US still maintain relations with Pakistan? Friendly relations because Pakistan is useful for the US and because the Pakistani government cooperated with the US and extradited this terrorist to the US. Same similarly when the 9/11 attacks happened and u it emerged that many of these terrorists were from Saudi Arabia. I suppose the government of Saudi Arabia must have cooperated fully with the US. So this was not a government sponsored thing. It was just a few citizens who did that. So and Saudi Arabia was is still very useful to the US and why would they give that up? So that's why that's why uh anonymous scientist says how actively does Vatican City interfere in the geopolitics of Christian countries? I'm not really sure about that. Um the Vatican, see the Vatican, if the Vatican is geopolitically powerful, it it may be part of the deep state that controls the US. But beyond that, I don't really know about that. Um, the Vatican historically was very powerful. It was the most powerful entity in Europe. It decided the fates of kingdoms and empires. It decided who a king could marry or divorce and it could decide not to grant a divorce to a king even if he wanted. It had so much power. Right? So, historically, it was super powerful. today I'm sure it's not entirely lost its power but whatever power it may have may be hidden beyond the below the surface so yeah this is kind of a mystery and I'm not really sure how it actively and to what extent it interferes in the geopolitics of Christian countries I'm not really sure but yeah it does interfere in the internal affairs of India for example because in India if you are what some Christian priests what are the higher ranked Christian priests called those padis uh bishops, cardinals, I think those are appointed by the Vatican and they have actual power over their parishes and whatnot in India or the population in population which in my opinion is is interference in the internal affairs of India. The Chinese don't allow this but we do. So yeah there is they do have some power actually. Okay, VS says, "If Boeing is facing so many quality issues, what possible alternative alternate steps would the US take to alter the NGAD F-47 program? Also, could you name a few books available on the military-industrial complex?" Um, what's NGAD47? Let's see. NAD 47. NAD 47. The F47, a fifth sixth generation fighter plane being developed under the US Air Force's next generation air dominance program. It's envisioned as a blah blah blah blah blah blah um significant undertaken. 20 billion initial contract has been awarded to Boeing and future cost will reach into the hundreds of billions. Look, when Boeing develops a fighter jet for the United States, it's done in a completely different facility compared to where they're manufacturing the civilian aircraft. And I assure you when Boeing is manufacturing, designing, developing and eventually manufacturing uh the F-47 or any military fighter plane, the safety standards, quality standards will be to totally different from what they employ in the civilian program. Okay? When they are manufacturing Boeing 737s or whatever it is that the manufacturer, that's a different story. So it won't be the same factory. It won't be the same operation. It'll be a totally different thing and totally different set of engineers. So I assure you there'll be no issues, no quality issues when it comes to the fighter planes. Books available on military-industrial complex. I haven't read any books on the military industrial complex. I don't know. Okay. Geopolitical Dubai says Turk Turkish. Will you please marry me? I am Muslim like you. We are one um our ancestors are the same. I love you Bangladesh next superpower. I have absolutely no idea what you're saying but all right this is a geopolitics live stream sir we'll talk about geopolitics here. Kunus says even if India reaches 10 to15 trillion dollar economy and if resource inequality persists and per capita income stays near 3,000 won't wouldn't it be pointless even Nigeria may reach 5 6 to 7 trillion what makes such growth meaningful then see right now India is a 4.5 trillion let's let's see this okay um let's Google this quickly what's India's current GDP India GDP in trillion USD how many trillion okay it's 4.2 trillion dollar USD it's 4.2 trillion USD right now okay and GDP per capita GDP per capita is 2,700 USD right now more or less. So our GDP is 4.2 trillion and GDP per capita is 2.7,000. So if we become of if we double our GDP with the same population, our GDP per capita will become 5.4,000. it won't remain near 3,000. Okay. If the GDP per cap GDP triples to 12.6 then the GDP per capita will become 2.7 * 3 21 8.1. So it won't remain near 3,000. Please this is just basic mathematics. So with a $15 trillion economy, our GDP per capita will be closer to 10,000. It will be above 9,000. It will be nowhere near 3,000. How is it pointless? How is it pointless? Your population is not going to go beyond 1.4 billion, right? Our population is now slowly start going to start declining. So if we reach a $15 trillion economy, our GDP per capita will be very close to 10,000, not 3,000. Please get the math right sir. So how is it pointless? It's very pointful actually. It'll be great. Your living standards will increase significantly. Quality of life will increase significantly and resource inequality. I don't think there is resource in India is one of the least in unequal countries in the world. Recently the world bank report a world bank report came out. India is one of the least unequal countries in the world. And show me any country that is that has complete equality. Equality is unnatural. Please get understand that you've been fed this propaganda that everybody has to be equal. How can everybody be equal? Is everybody the same? Does everybody have the same skills, same talent, same IQ, same everything? No, you can't have equality. You can give everybody equal rights, but you can't have equal outcomes. Some people are just naturally better, more intelligent, more hardworking, more consistent, more disciplined. They will perform far better than somebody who is lazy. So how can you have equality? So there's never going to be equality and it is undesirable. If you impose complete equality in a country, no matter how intelligent, how hardworking or or lazy a person is, then it is it disincentivizes people from working hard. So we don't want equality. We want equality of rights, not equality of outcomes. And India is one of the least unequal countries in the world. So please don't be brainwashed by whatever. Let's let's find that World Bank report about equality, right? Shall we? India India India inequality world bank look at this according to the World Bank India ranks fourth globally in income equality gen index of 25.5 indicating a significantly low level of inequality okay I don't know what propaganda you have been fed my dear viewers Many of you India is among the top four most equal countries globally. Please get that there's a tremendous amount of negative propaganda about India. But the World Bank itself has put out this data which shows that India is among the top four most equal nations. Now what more do you want? So first of all there is this myth of income of resource and whatever inequality is an absolute myth. It's a lie. It's propaganda. Secondly, when we reach a $15 trillion trillion dollar economy, our GDP per capita will be around $10,000, not $3,000. Okay? So, please get your facts right, gentlemen. Okay. MK says, "Why is Russia not focusing on cuttingedge technology like AI chip fabrication, quantum computing, etc.?" Uh the Russians do have a semiconductor program. I'm not sure to what extent it is it has succeeded or not. I think they are working on it. AI I think Russ I'm I'm not sure what Russia is doing about AI. One doesn't hear of any any major Russian LLMs and if they are indeed developing AI systems maybe they're doing it in secret or maybe they're not doing it at all. But if they don't do it, they obviously will be left behind which will be a tremendous problem for Russia. So I'm not sure what the deal is. Uh quantum computing once again I'm not sure. So if they are if they are pursuing these technologies de you know development of these technologies it's it's probably being done in secret and if it's not being done at all then Russia risks being completely left behind even behind countries like India because India is now taking things seriously India is taking quantum computing seriously definitely in the the past year or so uh AI we are now waking up to AI and the chip fabrication. Absolutely. We're taking it extremely seriously. If Russia is not doing it, then it risks being very quickly left behind and right now it there's nothing in the public domain about what Russia is doing. So yeah, it's kind of kind of unknown what Russia is doing about this. Okay. Divor Singh says India is not a hegemonic state, but if we go grow to 10 trillion dollars, countries that don't play by the rules like China will defeat us again. or should we not play by the rules to win? Okay. Yeah, we are not a hgemonic state. We have historically never been a hegemonic state. No matter how powerful our emperors have been, they have never really sought to, you know, play the hgemonic game and and colonize other countries and cultures and all that. It's never been the case. It's not part of our culture. So, you are absolutely right. Now today we are in the 21st century and we know how what what the rules of of the game are right. Um so if we if we let's say become a 105 trillion dollar economy but we still play the same old defensive game and don't play the hegemonic game then nations that do play the hgemonic game will have an advantage over us. Right? So the point is this, who makes the rules? The strong make the rules and the weak must suffer by the rules that the strong make. So the rules can be changed at will. If you are strong, you can make your own rules. So for until recently, India could not even imagine walking away unilaterally from something like the Indust treaty. But today we have done that visa v Pakistan. A few years ago, China walked away unilaterally from its agreement, from its treaty with the UK about Hong Kong, one nation, two systems. China said no more. We no longer recognize this treaty. China is way more powerful. And that's why they were able to do that. The US can unilaterally walk away at will from any treaty. Example, JCPOA, a joint comprehensive power plan of action, which Trump walked away from. this treaty that was signed between the US and Iran, Trump just walked away from it. So the more powerful you become, the more you can bend the rules or create new rules. So I suspect that as India gets grows gets more powerful, India will also play the same game. And if we don't do that, well then somebody else will make the rules that we have to play by. Um so it's not like we should not play by the rules. It's it's more like we should define the rules that we play by and I think we are definitely showing indications of of doing that. I mean walking away from the industry is exactly that that we are no longer going to play by the old rule book. We're going to make new rules now and we will play by those rules. So we are doing that and that's a great indication that's a that's that's a great sign that India is no longer that that idealistic nation that historically we have been we will play by the old rules we will not fight at night but the enemies will fight at night right prora Johan unfortunately Pritara Johan he was a great man great king but he lost and if you lose you're going to be the butt of ridicule no matter how great you were but if you make one mistake and you lose then you're going to be the butt of ridicule for the rest of history unfortunately. So he's in that unfortunate position. Anyhow, Dnur Singh says, "Is America too big to fail?" Nobody is too big to fail. I mean, imagine the Roman Empire at its at at its peak. It was too big to fail, wasn't it? And yet it failed spectacularly in a very short time comp relatively short time. Just a couple of centuries. Right? I mean, something that happened in 10 AD ended up slowly but steadily triggering the decline of the Roman Empire. The Roman Empire actually grew to its might after what happened in 10 AD. Um, what is it called? The battle of Tutubber forest. But u anyhow so nothing no empire is too big to fail and it's just a historical certainty that empires come into existence they they rise they grow to their pinnacle and then something happens and they fall it's just a historical certainty every empire fails eventually so America is not big too big to fail I think the bigger you are the more likely you are to fail because you become complacent you So yeah, that's the deal. All right, my friends, I am done with uh geopolitical doas. The USSR failed. Another example. There you have it. Nobody imagined the USSR would fail, but there we have it. The USSR also failed. Okay, so we are at the end of today's live stream. Thank you so much for all the questions. It was great fun taking the questions, answering them all. And uh yeah, that's it for today. Thank you so much and I look forward to seeing you in next week's live streams. So thank you very much. Take care. Keep asking questions. Keep raising your standards. Keep learning and I will see you next week. Thank you very much. Take care.