[music] Hey. >> [music] [music] >> Heat. [music] Heat. [music] >> [music] [music] >> Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome back to the Ask Abijit Show episode 324. for today. I hope you're all doing great and I'm going to take questions about geopolitics and history that you have asked in the comments. Before we get to that, let's see who is there on the live chat. Let me greet some of you. I can see geopolitical Dubai is here. Geopolitical Dubai is here from Indor. Good evening. Good evening, sir. BSVS is back. The Dark Knight will return Ram G and thank you so much for once again gifting memberships. So very kind of you sir. Thank you very much indeed. Satellite is here. Well, satellite has an interesting prefix but all right satellite [laughter] um uh Utkar Shukla geopolitical once again Gajjapati Dave Madhav Gupta rude sniper Gajjapati Dv Madav Gupta rude sniper who else do we have Reika Jar Ram GI Vidhiar good evening ma'am good to see you Kiki Susant Ola Seenor Hola Abu Singh uh Aayush Singh Pranam Pranam G who Um Nabita Das good evening Hers 009 surprise surprise indeed. Swami Hers Krishna of the Surinab Netherlands good evening and good day to you sir. Um Mahita Bushetti helloar Mahadev indeed Abishek Shuklas says 99 earthquakes in Iran. Really? That's interesting. Uh I'll I'll see that if that's the case. Okay. Sumit good evening from Jaipur. Good evening to you. real puddin jaram gi puddin 444 good evening rahul dunak hello good to see you sir swami is here from Jaipur hello mama bucket VFX welcome back uh Nagarandanda Shenoi uh namaskaram gi happy Saturday to you as well yes hello uh Mahabushi once again Mac 4 J1U Manhattan I6Wishek Shukla Death Ray 9 Alvin Rodriguez hello indeed Uh Hijakh Dask Gupta hello Shivasai good to see you. Brave robot is here says meow. All right. Raguir Soleni is here from Vadudra. Good evening sir. Uh Nikesh Dahal Namaste GI Rituij Baradwaj Panam G. Um Kamill Parasar is here from Meritt Up. Merritt Meritt up. Good evening sir. Thank you so much. Harsh. Uh Bandikar Bhoji. Namaskar G akshai Lo lo Sar good evening um pranav 581 Manhattan action 4216 evening Roshan Mea hello Roshan Mha is watching from LinkedIn Shanai is here from Hyderabad Ashini Dax Dak 1894 Ram Ram G Pratik Vora Nirvana Shanks good evening good evening Manisharu namaste G namaste bandar Bji harsh jay goan sal indeed Mlavin. Hello Mlavven G. Nikesh Dahal Bandakar Baji and Mama Bak Baket VFX greetings soldier boy salute. Putin from Hyderabad Panchchar 4161. God bless DJT. All right. God bless DJT. Uncertainty principal is also here. Who else do we have? Ankita Kachab G. Namaste G. Namaste indeed. Uh Mahabusetti is an Indian in London. Well, good afternoon to you, madam. Blastor. Blast is here. Who else? Rahul Dun. Uh, fun for fun for play free fire 581. Humanity survives. I hope it does. Ritu Badwajri K9X Empire 7 Nirvana Shanks. Good evening once again. Chandi Priya, Namaste G. Namaste indeed. Brianka saywas good evening mo [laughter] and everyone else. Okay I could go on doing this forever but let me end that here. Good evening to all of you. Good day to all of you wherever you are depending on where you are. And with that let's get going with some questions. What are the questions do we have? Okay we'll first discuss geopolitics and then move into history. So this is we're going to start with geopolitics questions. Real Vader Buddhin says there's news coming about a trade deal between the EU, European Union and India. But EU is a US vasal and the US today is acting like an imperial power. Shouldn't it arm twist the EU? So will the United States arm twist the European Union to not sign a trade deal with India? That's an interesting question. So uh uh there have been you know uh statements coming out coming out from the EU from uh Madame Usula Vanderlayin the president of the EU and Madame Kaya Kalas who is like the foreign minister of the EU that sort of thing and they have both said that you know Madame Rula Fondonder is visiting India in a couple of days uh for the 26th of January uh event and uh most likely there will be progress on a trade deal between India and the EU. Maybe even a signing of the trade deal between India and the EU when she is here when she's in India and it's been described by the EU as the mother of all deals, you know. So that could be a significant uh gamecher potentially. I don't use the word gamecher very often but it could turn out to be a gamecher economically for India and the EU, right? potentially depending on the parameters of the deal and the way it's being described by the EU leadership as the mother of all deals sounds like a big deal for sure, right? Uh and of course we know that the EU is under tremendous pressure from the United States. The US is not just pressurizing nations like India and China and Russia. It's pressurizing its own allies, its own assets, its own vascals. Right? Trump has threatened various tariffs on the EU nations uh about Greenland and then he has walked back on that threat and so on. So Trump is a mercurial figure. He's going to threaten everybody. He he has no issue no problem imposing massive tariffs on European nations. He threatened Mr. Mak of France with 200% tariffs on champagne and wines and whatnot. Uh so you never know what the US is going to do with its own allies. it's no longer acting like a friendly power with its allies, with its vasals. Um, so in this kind of a climate, geopolitical climate where you not, we don't know what's going to happen, where the US is acting like like an openly imperial power like you say it makes sense for the EU to hedge its bets and you know make deals with nations like India, China and China. Maybe not Russia but definitely India and China. India has a massive market. India has a lot to offer. uh so the EU would certainly benefit from a trade deal with India. So it's it's kind of depending on how the trade deal is structured, it could be a massively beneficial deal for both both the both the EU and for India, mutually beneficial, right? Um and we know that the EU is a bunch a group of nations that for all intents and purposes are American bas. So what happens? Will the US pressurize the EU into uh not signing this trade deal? I think the US is not in a situation where it can do that right. I mean, what's it going to threaten the EU with? A military invasion, tariffs. Don't sign a deal with India or I'll tariff you to hell. So, most likely the trade deal will happen. Looks like the way the pronouncements are being made, it looks like it's kind of almost almost settled, you know, the parameters of the deal. That's how it sounds like. So, let's wait and watch a couple of days. I think the US will not be able to arm twist the EU into not signing a trade deal with India. Looks like it's almost done, but who knows? You never know. So, I think we're going to have to wait and watch next couple of days, next two, three days, see what happens. Most likely the trade deal will be signed. If not then it's if the US somehow manages to prevent the signing of a trade deal between between India and the EU that would be a very massively hostile act against India and against the EU both right um so let's see let's wait and watch it's going to be a couple of days I expect that the e the trade deal will get signed of course uh if that happens it benefits the EU it benefits India as And it kind of reduces the effect that American tariffs and threats and arm twisting will have on the EU and on India also. Right? See the US has essentially priced India out of its market. The US has uh imposed what 50% tariffs right now on India. And if you are an Indian business, okay, let's say you are an Indian business owner and let's say you are you are exporting something to the US. Let's say you're exporting hats to the US. Just a very random example. Let's say you're exporting cowboy hats to the US, okay? And you can manufacture cowboy hats and sell them to the to to a US company at a very uh relatively cheap price. So let's say a cowboy hat is sold for $100 in the US. But I can let's say if you but if you're producing if you're producing them in India, you're going to be able to produce them for let's say $10 and you sell the hats to the American company at $20 a piece, then they're going to sell it to their customers at $80 a piece. All right? But if the tariffs are 50%, then you know uh they're going to have to pay pay 50% of what they are paying to you to the US government. So, they're going to pay you 20, they're going to pay 10 to the US government and then they can only have the remaining $70 instead of $80. Maybe not a great example. Maybe you're selling something for $50. They're going to sell it for $80. But now it becomes 75 because they have to pay 25 more and that that makes it commercially unviable for them. So, what happens is that if you are in this business of exporting stuff to the US, then you will stop getting orders, you'll stop getting contracts, right? And that's what's hitting so many Indian businesses right now because American partners are kind of wary of buying things from India because who knows what tariffs Trump will impose. He's talking about 500% tariffs also. You know that sort of threat if India keeps buying Russian oil. So India is getting pushed out of the American market by Trump. So makes sense to export to the EU, right? Um so that's why it could be a win-win thing for India and the EU. And obviously that Trump will not be pleased if this happens. So maybe he may he may try to interfere but u I expect he may not succeed. So let's wait and watch a couple of days two three days and let's see what uh what's the outcome of uh the visit of the EU leadership to India which begins the next couple of days. Let's wait and watch. I expect it most likely it'll the trade deal will get will get done. Okay this is about India and the UAE. Brian Kasikar Biswar says, "Is the sudden India UAE defense pact aimed at counterbalancing a potential Pakistan Saudi security arrangement or is there a deeper strategic calculation at play? If the US if the UAE already enjoys robust US defense backing, why seek India at all?" Susworth AI says, "What do you make out of the negotiations on the on the defense pact of India and the UAE? Is it in India's national interest because we wouldn't want our military to be engaged in other problems? Is the US pressurizing India to form a defense pact with the UAE which is a US vasile? Would this prove to be detrimental to our sovereignty? Rishabar says recently Mr. Muhammad bin Zed visited Delhi the the leader of the UAE and met with Prime Minister Modi. A very brief visit right but he met with Prime Minister Modi. The FDA free trade agreement was expanded and the new target is to make is to make trade $200 billion by 2030 or so. also over foreign secretary Vikram Nissri talked about a major defense deal and there's news of deals of an L LNG liqufied natural gas deal and a gold deal as well. What exactly is cooking? How do you see it as India's expanding role in the Middle East as well as in the context of the Muhammad bin Salman versus Muhammad bin Zed feud in Yemen and Saudi Pakistan pact? Okay, a lot is going on but there is talk of a US of of a India UAE defense agreement which is rather unusual right so we have excellent relations with the UAE no question about that now the question that's being asked over here primarily is under the assumption that the UAE is a US asset a US uh uh you know a US was So UAE yeah sashwhat aims says UAE is a US. Is it really US wasal? The way if you properly look at and analyze the the you know the relationships and alignments in West Asia or the Middle East like we call it, you will say that the UA is more aligned with Israel than the US. The UA's primary partner in the region or ally if you want to call it an ally in the region is Israel not the United States. Okay. Saudi Arabia you could say is an asset or an ally or a vasal whatever you want to call it of the US. But Saudi Arabia has been playing an interesting game. It's been exporting obviously it's it's a major oil exporter. has been exporting oil to China and taking payment in Chinese yuan bypassing the US dollar which is very naughty. The US won't like it and Saudi Arabia doesn't have that great of a relationship with Israel the kind of relationship that UAE has with Israel. So it's Saudi Arabia US but Saudi Arabia is also flirting with China so to say. Okay. It's not staying completely loyal to the US. It's also playing a game with China under the table perhaps maybe actually not under the table quite openly and then you have the UAE which is strongly aligned with Israel and UAE is also now aligning aligning itself with India and Pakistan and Saudi Arabia are have this mutual defense agreement which they signed a few months ago right so Saudi Arabia is is playing games with China and it's taking Pakistani help to secure maybe a nuclear umbrella or something. Okay. And there's the Turkey angle as well. So, it's Turkey, Saudi Arabia, and China. And Saudi Arabia has also acquired Pakistani military support. So, so it's Turkey, Saudi Arabia, China, Pakistan. Even though Pakistan is no longer a Chinese vasal, it's an American vasal. It's kind of a complicated game here. So Pakistan and China they are no longer on the same page except when it comes to India. So Saudi Arabia is essentially playing games that are you can say say are anti-India games for its own reasons. It's it maybe India is not the central issue when it comes to Saudi Arabia's strategic calculations but it makes sense for them to perhaps you know acquire the Pakistani uh nuclear umbrella which obviously once again Pakistani nuclear umbrella means American nuclear umbrella actually okay so because the Pakistani nukes are most likely American nukes on loan most likely 99%. So that's the game. So on the other side we have Israel, UAE and India. Okay. And India and the UAE UAE have excellent relations. I mean if you look at the population of the UAE it's like 60% people from the subcontinent at least 40% from India. So 40% of of the population in the UAE is Indians. Not citizens but population. Um so there is that. So uh and you know what the UAE would very much like to be you know like to have you could say military protection from India. They would very much like to have it. I mean I don't know what's going on in the minds of the leadership. Of course I'm not privy to those thoughts but it makes sense for the UAE to instead of depending on certain nations depend on India to a certain extent and Israel to another extent. So that is the deal and obviously there is a UAE Saudi Arabia rivalry that is now kind of a little more in the open but it's been there for a long time. Um so I would not really consider see UAE is obviously acquiring purchasing American weapons and all but I don't really consider the UAE to be completely a US vasal. The UAE is more aligned with Israel when Israel is a special nation. It's not a US facade, right? It is not. Israel is a special nation. So that is the thing. So uh so that's that that that is the issue. That is the deal. Saudi Arabia and the UAE have a rivalry for primacy in the region. There's a rivalry that's that's that extends to regions like Yemen. It extends to the Horn of Africa. uh maybe Sudan, maybe Somalia, definitely Somali land and uh Eritria, all of that. There's Libya also and that's a long long long story there. But there is a definite Saudi Arabia UAE rivalry. Saudi Arabia is aligning with Pakistan and uh Turkey and the UAE is aligning itself with Israel and the UAE. So u overall I think it's good for India. it will not u so the question the the concern over here that I I'm seeing is will this be detrimental to India's sovereignty right um it will not be detrimental to India's sovereignty that see how do you how does sovereignty get jeopardized sovereignty gets jeopardized if someone else is in full or partial control of your territorial integrity of your borders which is not the case or if somebody is in full or partial control of your economy that's not the case or if somebody is in full or partial control of your military which is not the case right so in no way does India's sovereignty get impacted by this maybe we are extending some protection potentially I don't it depends on what kind of deal is signed but maybe it will mean that we will extend our protection military protection to the UAE which does not in any shape or form impact India's sovereignty or is it's not in any shape or form detrimental to India's sovereignty. So, so what's cooking? There's a lot that's cooking. Apparently, the FDA free trade agreement between India and UAE has been expanded. There's a more ambitious target by 2030 or so. Major defense deal potentially. I'm not sure if it's been signed or what the parameters are but major defense deal you know um defense agreement which could essentially make India and the UE allies which India doesn't really do but here we have it looks like that and energy deal gold also potentially so India's role is definitely expanding in the Middle East and it's expanding in the context of the UAE and Israel there's a silent actor here which is Israel okay so that's the deal okay greenland Let's discuss Greenland. Will Europe fall to the US on Greenland? What's the future of NATO? That's what I don't lie says. Asks Mr. Karat says why has Trump bowed to Europe on Greenland? Was European unity too much for the US? So, will Europe fold to the US on Greenland? Second question is why has Trump folded to Europe on Greenland? And Aayush says why has Trump let go of the talk of Greenland to which he was saying that the US needs somehow anyhow possible any backdoor backroom deal happened. What's in my opinion? Okay. So a couple of days ago, few days ago, three four days ago, Trump uh said that you know he would impose what 10% 25% tariffs on certain NATO nations Denmark etc. uh and that would increase to 25% in a few months and remain in place as long as Greenland is not solved. And what's the solution he wants? He wants US sovereignty over Greenland. He says that you know what we already have our military in place in Greenland. We already have a military base in Greenland. And it's not like Greenland is Danish territory. You had a few boats come there a few few centuries ago. We also had boats coming in there, right? And Denmark is sovereignty. It's it's not something on paper, right? If you you if you have sovereignty over a region, you must be in a position to to hold it and defend it. And Denmark is not in a position to do that. So Trump says that that that's why you need to reach an agreement uh with us, the US on Greenland. We'll pay you some money and you hand over sovereignty to us and we need it for national security reasons. We want to keep Russia out and China out and etc etc. Obviously there's um the question of um you know very important thing which is resources, oil, gas, minerals and so on. So Trump wants greenland. Now Trump says more recently that you know those tariffs will not be applied. So what does it mean? Does it mean that Trump has given up on Greenland? Will he simply be content with America having the US having a few more bases or or or a more augmented military presence in Greenland with sovereignty still remaining in the hands of Denmark? What's the deal actually? Right. So, who has folded? Is Europe going to fold to to the US or is Trump folding and bowing to Europe? What's the deal? Neione of these things. So, Trump is not bowing to Europe. He's not folding to Europe. And uh what I expect is most likely in the coming days, weeks or months, some kind of agreement will be reached. Um and it will what kind of agreement will it be? It will be either full sovereignty for the US or de facto sovereignty for the US. See you can do something you can achieve an objective without without making it very obvious. So the US already has a military presence in Greenland. Let's say they expand military presence in Greenland. Maybe they reach an agreement with Denmark that instead of one military base, we will have seven military bases in Greenland. Okay. But technically the sovereignty remains in the hands of Denmark. Technically on paper it may be Danish territory but if the US military has seven let's say bases hypothetically on Greenland does it really mean that Greenland is Danish territory anymore? I mean Japan is technically a sovereign nation but it has 130 plus US military bases. You call that sovereignty right? The real who really controls Japan owns Japan occupies Japan is the US. Japan is not a so sovereign nation. Similarly they could do the same thing in Greenland. So technically it remains Danish territory on paper but for all intents and purposes on the ground it's the Americans who own and operate it. So technically so that satisfies um the the honor of Denmark that you know what we were able to stand firm and we did not give up our sovereignty. But look what's happening there. It's all Americans. [laughter] So the sovereignty is just technical. It's just on paper. So either the US will take full sovereignty of Greenland or it will achieve de facto ownership and possession of Greenland. Both ways the US wins and Trump wins. Okay. But if the Americans take full sovereignty of of Greenland, then it's kind of a slap in the face to Denmark, right? Kind of. And if they take def facto sovereignty without actually changing sovereignty on paper then Denmark's honor and and and you know Denmark saves face but knowing Trump I expect that he will want actual full possession sovereign possession of Greenland because he wants he wants to be remembered as one of the greatest presidents of all time in the US right and the greatest presidents are those who expand territory right so I expect that he wants to be remembered as the president who who expanded American territory and acquired a major new possession, Greenland. So, I expect that's that's what he's going to go after uh eventually. I expect that's what's going to happen. If not, it's going to be anyway de facto ownership of Greenland. So, either way, the US wins and they get what they want. Brianka Biswaris says, "Why is Russia seemingly backing the US on Greenland issue despite harming its own Arctic interests? Is this to weaken NATO or is there a deeper strategic tradeoff? Is there a deeper strategic trade-off? Is there some kind of backdoor back back room agreement behind the scenes agreement with the US? What's what's the deal?" So, if you see the recent statements of uh Mr. Putin or on Greenland. He is, you could say, backing the American position on Greenland. But Denmark doesn't really, you know, have any right to own Greenland and historical reasons and so on. And Danish sovereignty is just technical. It's only on paper. It doesn't really have sovereignty and it doesn't have any historical justification for owning Greenland. You never had Danish people who lived on Greenland. It was discovered by by by Le Ericson, wasn't it? Le F E F E F E F E F E F E F E F E F E F Een Eric the Red Le F E F E F E F E F E F E F E F E F E F Erikson about a thousand years ago and it was a white land but he was a good salesman so he called it green land and that's why you had a few Danish boats going there and you know temporary occupation of some little coastal parts of Greenland that sort of thing and that's how it became technically Danish territory. Denmark is not a military militarily powerful nation or whatever. So Putin is laying all that out and saying that you know Denmark doesn't really have a case for owning Greenland. That's what he is saying. Now, why is he doing this? If the Americans take control of Greenland, it does uh harm Russia's interests in the region, Arctic interests. Um, since we're discussing Greenland, we might as well go to the map, right? Okay. So, let's bring out the map and we are talking about Greenland. Okay. If you ever travel from let's say the UK or Europe to the US or North America, you will most likely fly over Greenland. Also, Iceland. So Greenland, it looks big, but it's not that big. Okay, but it's pretty, it's obviously a substantial territory. So it's kind of from this perspective, it's kind of between Russia and North America clearly. So it so you can see why the Americans want it, right? Um so so why is Putin doing this is the is the big question. Is he really uh I mean the Russians have a major you know interest in the Arctic region because they are an Arctic nation and much of their shipping etc passes through the Arctic region and shipping and energy and and fishery operations and and military operations submarines and warships and whatnot. I mean it's it's critical for Russia. So why is Trump I mean why is Putin seemingly supporting the US on Greenland and not Denmark? Well, Mr. Putin is being practical. The US anyway has a presence in Greenland, military presence. They have tool base or whatever it is, right? And there is absolutely nothing Denmark can do to prevent the Americans from just walking in and taking the territory. There's nothing Denmark can do, right? So Putin knows that it's essentially a done deal. A feta compli knows it's a done deal. He is a sensible person. He's a practical person, pragmatic person. He knows a done deal when he sees it. The Americans are not going to take are going to take Greenland. You can take it from me in writing. The Americans are going to one way or the other have Greenland. So what Putin is doing is creating divisions within NATO. Okay, that's what Russia is doing. They are playing various NATO members against each other with the hope of creating divisions and ruptures within NATO itself. See, Denmark obviously is deeply offended. So, so are many other EU nations or NATO nations. They are deeply offended that you are supposed to be the the protector and the benevolent leader of NATO and now you're targeting your own people and you just because you're powerful, you just want to grab territory like we have by like we Europeans have been doing in Asia and Africa for centuries. Now you're doing that against us. How can you have such double standards? We are white people. We Europeans. you can't colonize us. You can't bully us in that manner the way we have been bullying the the the the the [laughter] non-white people. How can you do that to us? So, they're outraged. They're outraged. And Putin naturally will want to, you know, uh exacerbate those divisions that have crept in crept into NATO. So, that's the game. And by that also kind of kind of you know if if there are divisions within NATO if the EU nations are unhappy if NATO members are unhappy if the European members of NATO are unhappy with the overall bully hedgemen the US then it can have an effect on the Ukraine war effort also right maybe they will lose they will maybe they will lose the morale that's needed to sustain the the Ukraine war effort and keep on replenishing Ukraine and supporting Zalinski Right? Maybe they lose the motivation. Maybe the motivation may decrease by 15, 20, 25 percentage points. That method helps. So that's the that's the deal. Russia knows the US it's a done deal. They're going to take Greenland one way or the other. Either full sovereignty or de facto sovereignty, but they're going to have Greenland one way or the other. So just accept what's in inevitable and take advantage of it in some way or some shape or form. And that's what the Russians are doing. That's the deal. It's not like it's not like Russia is going to send armed force its armed forces to help the US take Greenland. It's not like that. It's just, you know, it's like it's like sledging in cricket. Okay? You got two batsmen who are batting. You know that they have some tensions between them, some kind of rivalry. Okay? So, as the as the fielding side, you're going to put things in their ears to create tensions between them. maybe run out or whatever or maybe they'll play a rash shot or something, right? That's sledging. So that's what Putin is doing. He's sledging. He's trying to create he's trying to do mental disintegration like Steve Voy used to do. That's the game. And when Mr. Putin does that and says that people pay attention, right? So that's what's being done there. [snorts] Okay. Manka says, "What's your view on Trump's board of peace? Will it eventually replace the UN and should India join it? Rushab says what is the Gaza peace board? Trump invited Vladir Putin, Shabbaz Sharif and Prime Minister Modi amongst many others in the board amongst many others. Once again, no China in the board, not in Israel and the $1 billion fee for permanent membership. Is the US now discarding the old things and forming new ones? Should India sit in this board as a full member just test waters and silently pull back? particip participate for Kurtsy and quietly withdraw or completely reject and ignore Donald J. Trump's offer. Okay. Board of Peace, Gaza Board of Peace. Let's first find out who are the members so far thus far. Okay. Um, which nations have joined Trump's Board of Peace? Okay. Which countries? Which countries? Full list of countries. News Nation here the countries two days ago we do we have something more recent one day ago um we'll not go into the analysis who do we have okay the following countries have signed on Bahrain Morocco Argentina Armenia Azarbaijan Armenia Belgium Bulgaria Egypt Hungary Indonesia Jordan Kazakhstan Kosovo Mongolia Pakistan Paraguay Qatar Saudi Arabia Turkey UAE Usbakistan. So no major nation has has joined Trump's border of peace. Uh you have Pakistan. I mean you have a bunch of very disparate nations that don't seem to have much in common except that they all want to be on the on Trump's good side kind of you know that sort of thing. So that's the Gaza Board of Peace and Trump says that if you pay a billion dollars you can become a permanent member. But who's going to be the chairman of the board of peace? It's going to be Trump and Trump is going to be the guy with the veto. one person has a veto and he decides what happens and he can even eject nations from membership if he feels like if they if they displease him in some way. So this is I mean what is this right and and and is Trump trying to u you know replace the UN security council the United Nations by creating this thing one wonders right so that's his board of peace it's a bunch of nations who are essentially sucking up to Mr. Trump, right? Um, not trying to be disrespectful. I'm just saying that's what they're doing. Um, they want to be on his good side and and that's the deal. So, what do you get if you are on the board of peace? So, the board of peace is about Gaza, right? These nations will oversee what happens in Gaza and ensure that everything is done properly, blah blah blah, all that stuff. Gaza, how does it tie into India's national interest? ensuring that things are done properly as per Trump's plan on in Gaza. What does it have to do with us and our national interest? Essentially nothing. And if we are on the board of peace and you go to the summit, okay, let's say prime minister, let's say hypothetically India joins the board of peace and India is then required to participate in the summit yearly summit or whatever it is that Trump has called. Trump summons everybody, everybody in the board of peace, come meet, come to so and so place and I shall oversee the next meeting. So Mr. Modi has to go and know whether Trump you know whether Shabbah Sharif is going to be there and Trump is then going to bring them together and do a photo opportunity and maybe uh try and do some deal between Indian Pakistan. Do we want to be in that situation? Do we want to be in the situation where we have to be in the same where our prime minister has to be in the same room as Shabbash Sharif and Trump is the guy the big guy the boss who's going to tell everyone what to do and he's going to have Shabba Sharif come and miss meet Mr. Modi and he will insist that you guys shake hands and so on for the cameras. Is that what we want to be put through? I don't think so. Trump is going to do such things and then he's going to claim that you know I I u brought forth peace between India and Pakistan. I first ended the the operation Zindur three-day war and now see I made them shake hands and he will take credit for this and then he will say now I definitely deserve the Nobel Peace Prize. Do we want to be part of Trump's games? Do we want to be part of Shri Donald J. Trump's circus? I don't think so. In my opinion, India should stay away from this board of peace. In my opinion, Prime Minister Modi should not be in the same room as either Shabbash Sharif or even Donald J. Trump for the foreseeable future. So, I completely would say I would say that India should just stay out of this matter. Don't accept this. Don't reject it. Just don't comment on this. Don't talk about the board of peace. Ignore it. That's what India should do. That is the correct strategy for India. If you become if you become a member of that that board, it's it's going to be used in some way or the other to pressure India more and to create embarrassing situations for Prime Minister Modi and thereby for India. So, India should stay out of the border of peace. We should neither accept nor reject. Just stay out of it. Ignore this entire matter as if it doesn't exist. Okay, that's what we should do. Ashish Ashish says, uh, Finland president confirmed what you have always been saying about F-35s. Mark Carney also said something about rules-based world order that I've been speaking about. What has changed this much that the West is now openly berating the USA? Has the world crossed some point of no return? No. See, what's changed is that what used to happen behind the scenes that I had to explain and people would not believe is now happening in the open. So everything I used to say is now everyone can see it happening right now. F-35s, let's talk about F-35s. What have what have I been saying about F-35s? I have been saying that if you are a country that has bought an F-35 or a bunch of F-35s and you want to operate the F-35. Let's say you wake up in the morning, your pilot wants to go and take the F-35 for a spin in the sky, you're going to have to ask for an OTP for the Americans. [clears throat] You have to send a request for OTP. Today's OTP for to get an OTP, you have to first input the entire flight plan. what you plan to do, what uh what flight plan means what areas or what regions will you fly or fly, what weapons are you planning to use [snorts] and so on. You have to give the detailed flight plan. How many hours are you planning to fly? How many sorties and so on and then it goes to the US and they examine everything and if they deem that it is acceptable then they're going to send you an OTP. Once you get the OTP, you input the OTP in the F35's computer and then the F35 starts up. Okay. And then if you while flying if you deviate from the fight flight plan then the weapon system shut down and it becomes just a flying bird. Okay. And let's say you input a fightlight plan that you know I'm plan to take off with my F-35 and I'm going to bomb Pakistan and come back. You will not get an OTP. Denied. That's what I have been saying. I have also been saying that the Americans can remotely disable weapon systems. Okay. Kill switches. They have kill switches and they will also have back doors in in the F-35 systems. So they will know exactly what you're doing probably in real time. That's what I have been saying. And now the president of Finland has confirmed what I have been saying that they can't even use the F-35s without American permission. Essentially that's what it means. I have been saying this for years. And there's been a lot of skepticism from various people about what I've been saying and so on. Right. Well, here we are. The president of Finland has confirmed this. So, here we are. Mark Carney also said something about the rules-based world order that it's a whimsbased world order. Like I've been saying, I'm not sure if he used the term whimsbased world order, but that's exactly what he means. So what Mark Carney said essentially [laughter] Mark Carney is very upset that the Americans are that the US is pushing the European nations and the NATO nations around like a bully pushes around a bunch of school kids, right? The same way the European nations have been treating the third world until now. So he's essentially upset that the US is treating NATO and EU the way NATO and EU countries used to treat the third world countries. So you are you have now demoted us to the category of third world nations and you're treating us like them. That's what that's what he he's upset about, right? Double standards. The first world has always had double standards towards so the so-called third world, right? But now those double standards are being applied by the US to the first world nations. And that's what Mark Carney is upset about. How can you treat us the way we treat the non-white nations? How can you do that to us? It hurts our feelings. It hurts our sentiments. That's what he's complaining about. Mark Carney. So essentially what Mark Carney is saying is that there's no rules based world order. There are double standards, multiple set of standards. And now the Americans are treating these nations, Canada, EU nations with the same double standards that they used to in the past treat African and Asian nations. Yeah. So what has changed? What's changed is first of all the double standards that was that were applied to non-EU non-NATO nations are now being applied by the Americans to even the EU and NATO nations. They are being bullied exactly the same way. that has obviously hurt their precious sentiments and feelings. It hurts. It hurts. Yeah. Hurts my feelings. Uh and secondly, Trump is being completely open about American imperialism. American imperialism has always existed. Nothing has changed, but it's now open. It used to be done properly in the past diplomatically. Everything used to be done diplomatically. Now there is no pretense with Trump. He's not pretending. He's open about American imperialism. So these are the things that have changed. So it's very clear now that the US is an empire, right? The US is not the benevalent policemen of the world. The US is an empire. It's going to extract its pound of flesh from every nation. And the nations that don't bend the knee, they're going to be essentially squeezed with tariffs and threats and what not. So that's what's going on. That's what has what has changed. The world has not crossed some point of no return. The world is changing. Now the empire's imperialism is open is is is open in the public. It's it's there for everyone to see. Now no one can mistake it for anything else. It's open imperialism. So uh the world hasn't crossed some point of no return. The world is changing. It's changing rapidly. And obviously these changes are many of these changes are irreversible. Let's say in four years or 3 years Trump um u he deits office somebody else comes to power. Does it mean the US will stop behaving the way it's behaving like right now? No. All the changes Trump will make in the next three years including the past one year what he's done all of these are permanent changes. So the world is changing and it's kind of a permanent set of changes that's coming in. Uh so it's not one point of no return. It's just a journey of no return that we are on and that's what's changing and it's a very rapid journey. uh the changes we'll see geopolitically this this the next five years uh they're going to exceed essentially the changes that you see in five decades so that's what we are seeing right now real Vladimir Putin says why does the US wants to take over the Garcia islands islands more directly what are the benefits they get will it reduce Indian naval influence in the region says your views on Trump's recent statement on the garia and the chos aripelago Could you please provide a little background on the deal and what exactly is the case? Why is he suddenly calling out the UK Maicius deal on these islands when it was Donald Trump himself who had supported it given that India was the main broker of the deal and value of the the value of the base? How should we secure a strong foothold in the region and prevent China from taking advantage of it? Okay. If you want to know about um the Chaos Archipelago, the entire backstory and so on, I have I have made a video on this a few I don't know a year or so ago. Um here we are. Let me see. Let's go to my channel. Okay. And uh let's remove this from here. Go to my channel. Search for Chos. Chos. And you will have this video. Uh how the US and Britain stole Indian Ocean Islands. Chos Archipelago that's from a year or so ago in which I have explained the whole matter in detail and this video was then blatantly copied by Von you know Von the news channel they have something called gravitas or something they they just copied the video uh so that's the if you want to understand the background of the chaos matter okay watch that video essentially okay let's let's open the map and uh where is map we're going to open the map and first of all locate the trio was archipelago. So here is the map and we go to the Indian Ocean region of our own backyard. Uh we go south see we on the west coast of India off the west coast of India we have the lakshodep islands. Uh south of that you have the Maldes which is part of the same island chain and south of that you have the so-called British Indian Ocean territory which should never belong to Britain because it has no business being here but it belongs to them and it's the southernmost part of this uh entire island chain which starts with the luxury and goes through the Maldives and at the southernmost tip of this island chain you have the so-called British Indian Ocean Territory and the Chaos Archipelago. It's a bunch of islands over here. Okay. And the major island here is this one here which they call Diegoa. If you look at the satellite image, you'll find that there is a massive American air base here. And you also have uh naval facilities and uh groundbased electroloptical deep space surveillance and whatnot whatnot whatnot. Okay. all kinds of uh signals gathering u uh you know capabilities and whatnot over here. So and this this harbor that they have over here it can very easily accommodate an entire aircraft carrier. So it's a major naval base and also a major air base and it's also a major signals intelligence gathering station and what and everything. Massive presence they have over here. I'll not go into the details but you will see that this is a very major base and this is a base from which the Americans can project power across the entire Indian Ocean region. They acquired this air this this base thego Garcia from the British I think a year or two after the 1971 war that India in which India you know defeated Pakistan. So the Americans wanted to prevent India from defeating Pakistan and creating Bangladesh and they sent an aircraft carrier strike group into the Bay of Bengal and the British also sent an aircraft carrier strike group. So there were two western aircraft carrier strike groups in the Bay of Bengal but the Russians the Soviets had sent a submarine fleet nuclear submarines and that's why the Americans and British were not able to arm twist India and that's why India was able to win the war 1971. So then the Americans realized that we need a a base from which we can project power in the Indian Ocean region and it required you know bully India and that's why they acquired uh the UGartha from the British. Now the history of the Ugaria is such that you know Britain has no real sovereignty doesn't really have any historical legitimacy or any legitimate right over these islands. the island should belong to Mauritius and that's why the international court and whatnot there's been proceedings and you know the British had a couple of years ago I think a year ago decided to uh hand over sovereignty of the chos archipelago to the to Maicius okay with the condition that the Americans keep their lease on the Garcia for 99 years or something that sort of thing but it will then technically be sovereign Moraicious territory And Trump doesn't like it. He says that why is Britain doing this? We own Britain. America, the Americans o essentially own Britain. Britain is the UK is an American vasal. We know that. And as long as the Vasal owns the territory, the Americans are fine. But if you hand it over to Mauritius, then it's a problem because Mauritius, well, we don't have that sort of relationship with Mauritius. And Trump says Mauritius could even be a Chinese asset. That's what what that's what Trump claims. So if you look at the region, it's India's backyard. India keeps claiming right the Indian Ocean region is our strategic backyard. That's slogan. So it's part of our backyard and it's in our backyard that the Americans have this massive base from which they can project power into India if required. H and if you want to bomb Iran for example, you take off from Diego Garcia. Yeah. So it's a very major asset that the Americans have Diego Garcia you know air and naval base u so because the UK has decided to hand over sovereignty to Mauritius that's why Trump is upset about this and it looks like the UK has now decided to pause handing over sovereignty to Mauritius let's see uh what is the latest news on chaos let's see chaos let's see news Trump forces British Uturn UK withdraws she chosen bill. Would you believe it? Trump forces British U-turn with UK withdraws Chos Island build about after UK US president's great stupidity jar a year year after the UK promised Borishes the transfer of the entire Chos archipelago. The UK appears to be backing out amid backlash from Trump who called it a stupid decision. The agreement was signed in May 2025. It stated that that sovereignty over the island would be transferred to Mauritius who owns the archipelago in accordance with the 2019 ruling of the international court of justice but the UK would retain control of the largest island the Garcia by leasing it back for for a 99-year term and Trump the Trump administration had given it a green light at that time but now Trump says it's a problem and it's stupidity and so on and so forth. So Trump is that sort of guy very mercurial. He will change his tune on a whim and everybody has to then scramble to to please him. So the UK is now scrambling to please him and it is probably not going to transfer more Morish the the sovereignty to Maicius and maybe Trump will be happy with that or maybe he will say that I want to buy it from the UK. That also is a possibility. So that is the situation. Now the question is will this reduce India's naval influence in the region? It's already reduced right the Americans acquired Diego Garcia in 1973 or whatever 1972 73 you can look up the date and since then the Americans have a major major power projection base in the region right India stays away from it India the Indian Navy anyway doesn't sail in that region where does the Indian navy sail India has its own strategic calculus, its own threat perception. It stays away from the chos archipelago. Uh the furthest we will venture is uh Maldives as and when required because India has a neighbor neighborhood first policy. So when there's a problem in the Maldives of Storm or some issue then we will go and help them out. That's all we'll do. Um so the US anyway has ownership of the Egaria. The actual ownership is the UK. The UK has planned to transfer ownership to Mauritius. Now it is backing backtracking and saying it will not do that. But the actual boots on the ground and ownership of the Gogaria that is the US. The US actually operates the island. And if the UK tomorrow says give it back to us, the US has no obligation to give it back. Okay. Possession is 9/10 of the law. The UK, the US possesses the island physically. It has God knows how many soldiers and troops and personnel there. So possession is essentially almost the law. The Americans possess the island. All this technicalities of transferring sovereignty here and there that who cares. What really matters is who possesses the island physically. The Americans possess it. Um so India had insisted that India had supported Mauritius in the matter and now the UK is going to walk back on it. What can India do about it? Absolutely nothing. Absolutely nothing beyond diplomatic pro protests or whatever. Uh so how do we secure our strong foothold in the region and prevent China from taking advantage of it? There is no China angle here at all whatsoever. China has zero involvement in the Garcia or the Chaos Archipelago. It's the US. Okay. It's the US that owns it, operates it and and that's that's the thing. Okay. Next question. Anamay Khan says, "Do you think Prime Minister Modi will now avoid going to the US or any of its vasals till the end of his tenure, Trump's tenure? Given America's hostility towards India and also recently an ex US military officer Terren Jackson was reportedly sent to assassinate Mr. Modi since if he goes if he does go at Gore for God forbid something happens to him there India unfortunately can't do a thing given the difference in our military economic capabilities we don't want to repeat what happened in 1965 what happened in ' 65 what happened was it prime minister Shastri 1965 probably okay I don't think Mr. Modi is going to the US anytime soon I don't think Mr. Modi is going to meet Mr. Trump anytime soon. Mr. Trump has this hab habit of humiliating people. You can see it over and over again. He he does that even when the person isn't there. I mean, see the way Mr. Trump has been speaking about Mr. Mako, the French president. He's been taunting, insulting Mr. Macron for a long time, Mr. Trump, hasn't he? Even recently in Davo, he did that. Even Mr. Carney, right? So Mr. Modi, it doesn't make any sense for Mr. Modi to visit the US anytime soon or to even be in the same place where Mr. Trump is anytime soon. So I don't see Mr. Modi visiting the US probably as long as Mr. Trump is president unless something changes drastically. Any of its vasals that's a different story. Um the US has a very large number of vasals. All the EU nations, all the NATO nations, UK, Canada, all the Western European nations, even Japan, South Korea and so on and various other nations that I will not name here. Does it mean that Mr. Modi should not visit any of them? That's not quite the case. I think Mr. Modi will definitely avoid the US and being in the same place where M where Mr. Trump is. Um, vasal countries, I'm sure Mr. Modi can visit the UK or various European nations even Japan, South Korea, whatever depending on whether it's required needed or not. Uh when it comes to this assassination matter, uh there have been reports that some fellow called Terren Jackson was reportedly sent to assassinate Mr. Modi. What's what's the evidence for that? There's no evidence for it. It doesn't mean that this this did not happen. My point is there is no evidence that backs up this this speculation. This is pure speculation in the absence of any actual hard evidence. Right? It's speculation. I mean some people are claiming this happened that happened. On what basis are you claiming it? Oh, we have intelligence. We have we've got this report from somewhere. We have sources. That's not hard evidence that you can you know that is that will stand scrutiny in a court of law. It's not that sort of evidence. Right? So it's speculation. So I am going to there's even been speculation that when Mr. Modi went for the for the SEO summit where he met with with Mr. Putin and Mr. Xiinping at that time also Mr. Putin had taken Mr. Modi on a on a car ride for 45 minutes to maybe discuss something in private and some people were speculating maybe there was an assassin assassination attempt there too that Mr. Put in prevented. Uh what's the truth behind that? I don't know. Okay. The Russians have made no statements about any such thing. So it's pure speculation. But obviously it doesn't mean that there is no risk to Mr. Bodh's life. He has to be obviously very careful. He can't just randomly visit some country just like that. And whenever he does visit some country, the his team will obviously make sure that no such thing can happen. And obviously the feasibility and the risk assessment also has to be done before a visit is arranged and so on. So all that obviously will be done by the professionals and hopefully things just you know everything goes smoothly wherever whenever Mr. Modi visits some other country. My point is he will probably not visit the US anytime soon. Maybe not as long as Mr. Trump is is president and he won't even visit some other country where there is the high possibility of of having to meet Mr. Trump. I think Mr. Modi should just avoid such engagements. And I think makes sense, right? Makes sense. Sum Brahmanic says the US is now very clearly showing the world how powerful and capable they are and they can essentially do anything anywhere in the world. Well, yeah, now we can see it. I've been saying it for four years, 5 years. Okay. So, how can Russia and China counter the US who is now actually behaving like a superpower and isolating both the countries? Please explain in detail. The US is a superpower. It has always behaved like a superpower. But in the past, it did did this in certain ways that were not very obvious. And that's why the the world thought that America is this great champion of human rights and democracy and freedom and whatnot. Now we can see what the US is. It's it's an empire. It's an imperial power, superpower, whatever you want to call it. And it's behaving as such openly, right? So um the US is obviously doing whatever it wants because it has global power projection capabilities. The kind of capabilities that Russia and China both lack. China has next to no power projection capabilities. China has almost no extr territorial military bases. The same essentially applies to Russia, right? It it may have some military bases beyond Russian territory but those are terrestrial bases not naval bases and air force bases terrestrial bases maybe air force but terrestrial but no naval bases. So the US has essentially global power production capability which means it can do whatever it wants. It can take Venezuela if it wants it can tomorrow maybe make a move on Iran if it wants and the US has this very clear goal right now to secure as much of the world's energy supply as possible. Venezuela, 20% of the world's proven oil reserves. The US now takes it. Next, maybe Iran, right? Iran also has a massive massive uh [clears throat] share of the world's oil reserves. If the US takes that, well, that's a major problem. So, the more of these oil and energy reserves the Americans start controlling, the more of a problem it becomes for especially China. Not so much for Russia because Russia has its own energy reserves. Russia doesn't deserve doesn't depend on any any other country for energy. Russia is a net exporter of energy. So Russia will not be constrained by this. China for China it's a major major problem right? If the US starts controlling all these sources of energy that China depends on. So by doing all of this the the Americans are pre putting more and more pressure on especially China and even Russia you know. So, [clears throat] so what can Russia and China do to counter the US? Well, at this point in time, there's not much. U Russia and China, for example, if it comes to Iran, Russia and China can bolster Iran's defenses by sending, you know, military equipment that the Iranians can use to defend themselves and prevent a regime change operation or any kind of anarchy or chaos in the country. when he hears that Chinese transport aircraft are arriving in Iran, right? Maybe they are dispatching arms, ammunition, whatever the the government needs. So, what the Russians and Chinese can do is they can bolster Iran's uh self-defense capabilities and military capabilities. Maybe the ch the Russians can perhaps share some missiles. Maybe the Iranians don't need missiles. Maybe the Iranians have excellent missiles of their own. So whatever Iran needs, the Russians and Chinese can perhaps supply Iran with that. Maybe that helps Iran stay afloat. But let's say okay, so that's one angle. What else can Russia and China do? Well, they will have to become more dependent on each other. China will have to become more dependent on Russia for energy and Russia will may have to become more dependent on China for other things. And it makes sense for both Russia and China to have markets and have other nations that they can cooperate with which is where obviously India comes into the picture because India is not a western puppet. It's not a western vasal. India is sovereign but China has you know created a bunch of self goals by by by being so hostile towards India the past several decades. So then the question is does China Russia and India have an excellent relationship? The Americans don't like it. That's why they're pressuring India to walk away from Russia but that's not happening. So what Russia and China can do is they can augment and and improve their relationship with India and various other nations that seek to remain sovereign. Well, how many of these do we have? Not too many, right? Do we? Yeah. So Russia and China become more interdependent and maybe they maybe especially China improves its relationship with India and they both work on self-defense. Russia what it can do is is is maybe it can perhaps keep the war in Ukraine going on so that it keeps depleting the European nations who are supporting the Ukrainian war effort. Um or maybe if Russia calculates its time then maybe they can quickly end the war in Ukraine. maybe by taking Kiev or whatever whatever way they they seek to end the war in Ukraine. So yeah, so Ukraine is a factor in this and China obviously will have to keep on increasing its military uh capabilities and so on. So these are the things these two nations can do. Obviously they are getting becoming more constrained by the American actions. Yeah. As as a consequence of the changes the Americans are making in the world order. Venezuela gone. Iran pressure. Who knows what could happen to Iran. Syria gone, right? Syria was also a Russian and Chinese ally or at least partner. That's gone. So the pieces on the chessboard are being moved around and that puts China and Russia both under increasing pressure. So they're going to have to work together. They're going to have to find other nations that potentially they can work with. And they're going to have to play defense. No, they can't play offense. Maybe Russia can to some extent in Europe, in Ukraine. China is playing defense. You will see China is is extremely wary of any kind of military confrontation. They will use military force as a bullying tactic against the weaker nations like perhaps Taiwan, you know, but they are mortally afraid, the Chinese, of any kind of military entanglement with the US. They don't want that. The Americans have understood this very clearly. So they're going to apply maximum pressure on China through other means. Yeah. So that's where we are. Briangas says why was Zalinski unusually bitter in his speech towards EU after all the support he got? Zalinski when has he not been critical and bitter of everybody? The first time he visited Washington DC he had a shouting match with Trump. Zalinski is alive because of Trump because of the support that that the you know Trump led US western coalition has given to Ukraine but Zalinsky goes and shouts and fights with Mr. Trump the guy I mean he's always been like this right so uh Zalinsky obviously expects more he wants more more he's not satisfied with what what he has what he wants is he wants to defeat Russia he wants to go and sit in Moscow in the Kremlin and take over Russia that's what maybe what he desires right uh [clears throat] so what he wants is he wants to defeat Russia he wants to take back whatever territories he has lost including Crimea And if that happens then maybe he will be reasonably satisfied and then he will say let's go now go go go after Moscow. His demands his his his demands will never be satisfied. That's the kind of guy Zilinski is. So yeah that's why he was bitter. He's always bitter. Math in CLA says uh could you please explain what's currently happening to the Kurds in Syria? What's India's position in the matter? Okay. Kurds in Syria. Let's go to the map. Um, what's happening to the Kurs is what's always been happening to them the past 1,00 or so years, at least the past couple of centuries. So, Kystan, where is Kyustan? It's essentially kind of this region. Okay. um eastern Turkey, north, western, Persia, Iran, parts, you know, northern parts of of Iraq, even some parts, eastern parts of Syria. This entire region is what should have been Kuristan, a nation for the Kurds. But it was the European nations, European powers, western powers that you know designed the maps, the boundaries between nations in West Asia in the aftermath of the first and second world wars and they said that there is no need for a Kurdistan and that's why you not have a Kuristan. So the Kur the Kurdish people they are oppressed in Turkey, they are oppressed in Iraq. uh they are also there some of them also live in in northwestern Iran and they don't have a land of or a nation of their own landless people you know always oppressed everywhere even the Iranians don't want a kurasan because it would then you know take away some Iranian territory so nobody wants kuristan everybody wants a kuresh territories they've taken and the Turks especially have been extremely um well you could say brutal towards the Kurds uh so what's happening now to the Kurds in Syria Not just Syria, Iraq, etc. everywhere. So there is definitely a Kurdish population in Syria because part of Kuristan it's currently in Syria. So what's happening? See what the Americans want is a regime change into Iran. They want a regime change in Iran. Now a direct military operation is maybe not the best thing because it may not work in Iran is too large of a nation to be invaded by a military force. Maybe okay and and if this happens maybe the maybe the people will support the the regime of the laws in the so then what can you do you can perhaps destabilize Iran okay by sending in ISIS and whatnot ISIS al-Qaeda etc terrorists to to create insurgences and whatnot in Iran so what you can do so so Turkey allegedly has a lot of uh connections apparently allegedly with ISIS and al-Qaeda and uh Many of these terrorists have been fighting in Syria. I mean, right now, Syria is ruled by ISIS, isn't it? Golani is is an ISIS terrorist and he's now the president of Syria in Damascus. So, Syria is ruled by ISIS. In the past, you had ISIS in Iraq, right? ISIS suddenly emerged in the 2010s from nowhere. Maybe it was a rebranded al-Qaeda or whatever. That's a different story. So, Turkey has a lot of influence somehow over the ISIS and al-Qaeda terrorists. So Turkey seems to have decided that maybe with maybe with a go ahead from a more powerful nation perhaps potentially that we're going to send ISIS and al-Qaeda terrorists into Iran to fight Iran. But first we have to make sure that Syria is completely secure and under under our control which means that the Kurds cannot be a resistance force in Syria anymore. Which means that we have to neutralize the Kurds. Maybe Syria should have no Kurdish people. Maybe that. So that's why there is now an ISIS al-Qaeda mostly ISIS offensive against the Kurdish people in Syria. And maybe it will go into Iran, Iraq also and eventually maybe into Iran. So Turkey sees the Kuresh people as its enemies. The Turks see everybody as their enemies. Maybe they they don't want any Kuresh people to exist just like they don't want any Armenians to exist. Right? Uh the Kuresh people by the way are neither Arabic nor Turk. The Kuresh people are Indo-Iranian. They're classified as an Iranian people. They speak an Iranian language according to linguistics linguistic classification. Okay. Um and they practice festivals like Navros and so on which used to be a Zorashan festival originally. So that's the Kurdish people and the Turks they don't want the Kurds to exist. So nasty stuff is happening to the Kurds. The Kurds are fighting and resisting but one hopes they succeed but yeah Rushab says how do you see the future of Iran? The Basie and the IRGC are there to stay. The protests have no leadership. So will we see a deal between the US and Iran? Will Kabi become moderate and do some deal or will he be deposed and the regime will adapt like what happened in Venezuela? Can they try and use Azeri's kur and Sunnis or it creates Afghanistan or is the US doing a deceptive operation where they might suddenly do something like Venezuela? What future lies ahead for Iran and the Houthis? Houthis. Okay. Houthis. Okay. So once again map Houthis are the Ansarah faction in Yemen and they are allies of Iran. Uh Iran also has allies in Lebanon Hezbollah and they used to have an ally in Syria which no longer exists because now Syria is ruled by al-Qaeda or sorry ISIS whatever terrorist Jolani al-Shara or whatever his name is. So that's that's the deal. Now coming back to what's happening what could happen for to Iran. Look, Iran is too large of a nation to be invaded and successfully taken. It'll it's it's possible for sure, but it [snorts] will lead to complete chaos. And is it worth spending so much time, energy, effort, money, especially billions of dollars, maybe trillions of dollars into an invasion of Iraq, which and you see Iran will not go down without a fight. They know the government of Iran knows that the Americans are after oil. If the Americans try to take Iran, maybe the Iranians will do exactly what Saddam Hussein did when the Americans invaded Iraq, burned the oil wells. That's a possibility. Uh that would be an environmental catastrophe and it would take a lot of time for the Americans to be able to salvage that and bring that under control. And obviously Iran has very very powerful missile capabilities. They could target all the American bas bases in the region successfully potentially. They could even target Israel, right? So instead of launching an invasion, another alternative that the Americans have is to launch an insurgency through ISIS terrorists and al-Qaeda terrorists and all that. And if you look at the population of Iran, maybe roughly 50% 60% perhaps could be Persians. The rest are various other ethnic groups like the Azeris, Azarbaijanis, um Arabs, Kurish people also but those are more Iranian than Arab or whatever. So you have various you have the Balois also right in the southeast of Iran. Um so the Americans could try and launch insurgencies in Iran. Um they could use Pakistan. Pakistan is a tried and tested terrorist nation. Pakistan is the is is the is the greatest terrorist nation of the world. The global epicenter of terrorism. I mean Pakistan is the world's university of terrorism. They you don't need to teach them anything. So the Pakistanis could create trouble for Iran. Al-Qaeda ISIS could create trouble from Iran from the west. Right. So maybe that could be done. Uh like you saw the protests have no leadership. uh possibly no leadership, right? So what could happen? Maybe that happens. I think an invasion of Iran, military invasion is slightly less likely than launching a destabilizing set of operations on Iran, insurgencies, terrorism, all that. That obviously I think could probably be more likely. So what could happen? Will we see a deal between the US and Iran? Well, if that happens, does the Iranian government have any legitimacy anymore? If they agree to a deal which which obviously makes Iran a vasal state of the US. If there's a deal between US and Iran, it obviously will involve energy. The Americans will insist that we control the energy. You sell your oil to us only or to nations that we approve, which means no more China or whatever. Then will Iran agree to that? Will Russia agree to that? Of course, Russia, if Iran agrees, Russia can't do a thing. China can't do a thing. But uh essentially for Iran, from their perspective and from their own language and their past pronouncements, it means doing a deal with the devil. Because the Iranian government calls the United States Shaitan Borg, the great Satan. So will they do a deal with a nation they call the great Satan? A deal with the devil. I doubt it very much. So there is no deal. Kane will not become moderate or whatever and do some deal. Very unlikely. Can the Americans do what they did in Venezuela? Maybe pay off a bunch of lower ranking Iranian officials and get rid of the top guy and have a puppet come in place. They may try that. But will it work? I think it's uh less likely. It's not impossible. That I think could be the best solution for the Americans. Um don't do a military invasion. Launch insurgencies and terrorist operations across Iran using ISIS, using Pakistani terrorists and so on. And by that put pressure on the Iranian regime and then pay off a bunch of Iranian high-ranking people, the key people in the government to expel or take out the top leadership and then install a puppet of the US. That I think is the best option for the US. It will um cost them the least and it will you know yeah cost them the least. no trillions of dollars to spend on a military operation. Um, and that by doing that you can actually take over the entire nation essentially intact. All the all the assets all the all the all the resources of the nation intact. So that could be the best way forward for the US, right? Uh so what future lies ahead for Iran? Um more and more pressure on on Iran. Maybe the Turks etc. will launch some kind of ISIS operation that sort of thing. Maybe the Pakistanis will be involved in terrorist activities in Iran. Maybe Iran comes under more and more pressure and then the Americans maybe try to buy some Iranians off and effective regime change at the very top while keeping the rest of the government structure intact. So it looks like the there was a coup within Iran and the government of Iran has decided to have a new leader now and miraculously this new leader now is pro- US. That's also a possibility. I think that is the ideal way forward forward for the US [clears throat] makes the most sense and costs the least. So will that succeed? [clears throat] depends on to what extent the Pakistani potential terrorists and potential Turkey ISIS terrorists can destabilize Iran and the extent to which the Americans can and Israelis and whoever else can forment more protests and so on in Iran. If that continues and there is more pressure on the government and then there is more of an incentive for some people in the Iranian government to to accept a US proposal for regime change which leaves the rest of the structure intact. So [clears throat] I think that could be the the angle the Americans will work on. Let's see how it goes. Mclivven says, [clears throat] "So Iran temporarily turned on Starlink to track down and arrest the users. Maybe it wasn't such a bad idea to let it operate in India." Okay. Okay. What Iran did is this. They turned off the internet in Iran. and they had the means to prevent Starlink from operating in Iran by GPS spoofing and some other um means but they turned that off too for a while. So Iran first switched off internet. The government of Iran first it the first thing it did was switch off internet in Iran. Turn off internet. No internet access. Then they allowed Starlink beams to operate in Iran uninterrupted. They had the means to jam the Starlink signals but they for some time stopped jamming the Starling signals. So the Starling signals then then were able to come properly and then whoever had Starling receiver devices in Iran. They started using that and the Iranian government had a way of finding out where is Starlink being used in Iran. pinpoint the location so that they could go and arrest those people because see Starlink is not legal in Iran. Starlink equipment is not legal in Iran. If some individuals have Starlink receivers in Iran, it means they are assets of foreign powers. Right? So Iran did this to identify and pinpoint the people who were foreign agents in Iran and then they went ahead and arrested them. Once this was done, they once again jammed the Starlink signals and then maybe they put on the internet again for after a while. I don't know if they did but yeah. So that's what was done. Okay. Now is it a good idea to let Sarling operate in India? I don't think it's a good idea. I don't think so because see if we allow Starlink to operate in India then anybody can buy Starlink receivers and whatnot and then if India let's say in the future so it means that everybody it means that a large number of people have Starlink receivers maybe hundreds of thousands of people and then let's say if for for whatever reason India has to bring internet down for let's say 24 hours in some city for some reason or maybe some state then you may still have a a few 10 thousand tens of thousands of people who have Starling devices there then how do you identify the ones who are foreign agents you can't right you can't so I don't think it's a good idea to allow Starlink to operate in India why do we need that if we need space or satellite internet why can't we have our own service why do we need a foreign service I don't think it's a good idea at all Heisenberg says Is China's presence in the Indian Ocean reversible or or has India already lost critical strategic space? See, nothing is irreversible? What kind of presence does China have in the Indian Indian Ocean region? Let's let's take a look at the map. Uh this is the map of the Indian Ocean region. Uh obviously it is there are two there's the west coast of India which is the so-called Arabian sea which I call the sea of Sarashtra and you have the east east coast of India which is the bay of Bengal or the or the Kolinga bahas saga. So that is the coastal regions of India. Then we have the Lakshadep Sea. And then you have the greater Indian Ocean over here which goes all the way to the Gulf of Malaca, the straight of Mala to Western Australia, all the way to Antarctica and over here in East Africa. So this is the Indian Ocean region. Now what kind of presence does China have? China operates submarines and some ships, you know, some some warships in the region, naval ships. And the Chinese often participate in antipiriracy activities, naval activities uh of the horn of Africa region. This this region, okay, this is this region is called the horn of Africa. In this region, you have Somali pirates and whatnot. And the Chinese often send warships in the region under the pretext of engaging in antipiriracy activities. And the Chinese sometimes they they send submarines and warships to dock off the port of Karachi. Okay. And the Chinese also have uh they operate um a port a naval port in Djibouti. Uh shall we see what kind of um what they have in Djibouti? So if you see here um what what naval facilities do we have here? Uh you will see a Chinese terminal and whatnot. Okay. I can't see tell which one is the Chinese. There's an American operation also over here. So, this seems like a Okay, so I'll I'll not waste your time by trying to identify which is which. But the Chinese operate um they they have a naval base in Djibouti. Okay, so that's one thing they have. They may have access to Karachi port or definitely uh Guadada port and uh possibly Haman Tota. I'm not sure if that's still something they operate and uh possibly something in Madagascar. And definitely um not sure about definitely not Thailand or Burma. maybe something in Bangladesh but Bangladesh is now a US facile so it doesn't work so that's the kind of you know scattered activity they have that they're trying to construct a string of pearls did not really work out for them uh so they have some presence in the Indian Ocean region now is this irreversible or is it reversible nothing is irreversible has India lost critical strategic spa space not at all we can transform the Indian Ocean region into an Indian zone by simply by simply putting out more warships. All you need to do is to build a bunch of warships, not necessarily very expensive warships and have them patrol the region, visibly patrol the region. So wherever you go, you must not be far from an Indian ship. You should see visibly that there are Indian ships all over the place. that will immediately is very straightforward in a very straightforward way give India an overwhelming advantage over China. So if the Chinese have a few ships here and there it will make no difference. What India needs to do is put out construct more ships warships in large numbers including submarines. The submarines are the are the critical aspect in this not aircraft carriers. Some of the easiest things to do is one of the easiest things to do is to build build a bunch of missile boats. Boots that don't stray far away from shore, maybe a 100 nautical miles or so. And each missile boat should not cost more than $20 million to build, which is peanuts in terms of actual money. And have each missile boat carry three brahos missiles. That's frightening enough. If you build a hundred of those, that is frightening for any adversary because you know, you never know from what direction of missile is going to come and hit you. So that's one thing. Then you can build destroyers and and corvettes and whatnot and a bunch of submarines. You have that all over the place. What can China do, right? There's nothing that's re irreversible. McLevin says most of the powerful positions in the world are held by boomers. Boomers. They are way too old to work but but still don't want to give up their seats. Look at Biden and Trump. Do you think things will be better if the younger generation comes to power? Makes no difference. Okay, sure. You know, if you if you if you have an elderly leader, elderly person who's leading your nation, maybe the leadership is not that dynamic. But look at Trump. He's an elderly guy. I mean, look at his leadership. He's rampaging across the world making America great again. Isn't he succeeding? So what? Biden is a different story. Biden wasn't fully there. Biden wasn't fully there. Somebody else was running the country clearly. So and it wasn't Kamala Harris was somebody else entirely. Kamala Harris was definitely fully there but she is not she wasn't competent to run a country. So the US is that sort of country that even if the leadership is incompetent, the visible leadership is incompetent, you have people running the country and it it's it's taken care of. When it comes to other nations, so Trump is a great example of maybe he's a boomer, but he's a tremendous leader even now at this age. Putin is also probably a baby boomer. What's a boomer? First of all, let's try and understand what boomer is. It comes from the term baby boomers. That's a generation, right? Baby boomers. Generation. Okay. What's baby boomers? People born from 1946 to 64. So, I'm sure Mr. Xiinping, Mr. Modi, Mr. Putin, and Mr. Trump, all of these leaders are baby boomers, right? Most likely all of them are. Mr. Putin is the best leader we can you can the Russian people can ask for today. Mr. Mr. Bodhi is the best prime minister we can ask for today for India. Probably Mr. Fijian is the best leader to run in his country. Um so it's not like age matters as long as the leader is still all there and competent and high quality leadership is is what you're seeing. Uh but will things be better if younger younger people come to power? Could be. Could be. It's always nice to have a person who's reasonably young maybe 40s to 60s in politics. 40 is really young. 50 is also young. 60 is like, okay, you're getting there now. So, a person who's between 40 and 60 is considered young in leadership and politics. Below the age of 40, I don't think a person is wise enough to be to lead a country. Okay? And you've had people who led countries at much younger ages. Of course. Of course. And if you're lucky, that person does a good job, especially with the right kind of advisers and all. But ideally a leader should be above 40. So I don't think the things will be better if younger generations come to power. I don't think the world will be more peaceful if if younger people come to power. The the nature of power never changes and national interest never changes. So I don't think it makes much of a difference actually unless you have a leader who is elderly and and and no longer fit for the job. In that case, your country suffers. Okay, let's move into history now. Vashisha says, "Did the Germans invent blitzkrieg?" So, what's blitzkrieg? Blitzkrieg is tactics. What tactics? You concentrate all your force, all your power in a single point essentially in a very narrow space and blast through uh the enemy's defenses. It's warfare. I'm talking about military warfare here. So what the Germans did in the second world war is blitzkrieg tactics. U you had the French Majino line which was a series of fortifications and defenses and the French forces were concentrated along the Majino line. The Germans what they did was they focused all their firepower all their forces in one point on the Majino line broke blasted through that and just made the Mino line irrelevant. They just went through this and invaded France and the defenders were left behind. That's what the Germans did. Now, is this something new? So basically tactics are about focusing your firepower, your your military force in one place, blasting through it and that tactical victory you then translate it into systemic collapse for the opposition by making their defenses irrelevant. So you mobilize your your infantry, your tanks, your armored divisions, your air support, everything in one place and blast through that. That is a blitzkrieg. Did the Germans invent it? Not necessarily invented, but they took it to the next level. Um the Mongols probably used blitzkrieg tactics. The Mongols were really good at that. They also had this thing you know where they would the mo the Mongols had highly mobile uh warriors, horse based warriors, cavalry both of them and they had they employed bows and arrows and very powerful. They were [clears throat] really skilled at that and they were really really fast and they could they also used similar tactics. But what the Germans did was they brought in elements of mechanized warfare that were not available to the Mongols. So the Mongols also used eventually catapults and this massive equipment, but those were not mobile, right? Those are very heavy and very hard to move. They had to be dismantled to move them from one city to another. But if you have a tank and that's way more powerful than a catapult, it can build bring down buildings and whatnot. So and that's pretty mobile. Tanks can move really fast. So the so the the Germans brought tanks um other mechanized ar artillery, mechanized columns and even air power and brought all of these elements and aspects together along with infantry infantry and whatnot in into the into the set of tactics into the mix in Blitzkrieg and that's that's something that had not been done before. So the Germans did not invent blitzkrieg but they took it to the next level. And the tactics India used for example in 1971 those are once again blitzkrieg tactics right same tactics but we didn't call it blitzkrieg but those were the same tactics the Americans in desert storm use blitz blitzkrieg tactics so blitzkrieg works it's about bringing all your forces concentrating everything in one place uh causing effecting strategic sorry tactical success there and translating the tactical success into systemic failure for the for the enemy. That's blitzkrieg and yeah. Okay. Amisha says slavery in France was abolished in 1794. Was it 1794? Was it 1789? Okay. Whatever year 1794 let's say Napoleon Budapart relegalized slavery in 1802 where emancipated slaves forced black forced back into slavery. How did relegalizing work in practice? So slavery was indeed abolished sometime in the late 1700s 17 whatever year it was. I was under the impression it was 1789 or something. Let's just double check it. I'm just not letting my mind is not letting that go. Uh when did France abolish sla abolish slavery? Slavery 18 not colonies man. Yeah, Amisha is absolutely right. It was 1794. Okay. During the revolution, it was reinstated by Napoleon in 1802 and then 1848. Okay. So that was a deal. 1794 France abolished slavery but Napoleon Bonapart to the great the great man says no no no we need more slavery slavery is manic we want it yes we is so let's have slavery all over again so Napoleon relegalizes slavery now what effect did it have France had a bunch of colonies Moraicius it had colonies in in Heii some other colonies Martineik and what not. Okay, bunch of colonies. The thing is this 1794 slavery is abolished on paper. But in many of these colonies, slavery was still there. [laughter] Maybe the papers had not reached there or maybe the the the slave owners were just were just dragging their feet and you know, let's keep it going as long as there's no punishment for us or there's no real push back. So in many of these places, slavery was still kind of continuing. For example, Mauritius, most likely slavery still existed in 1802. So when Napoleon relegalizes slavery in 1802, it made no difference in Mauritius because slavery was anyway going on. Even though they had not implemented the abolition of slavery, slavery in Heii, you had the great uh the great uh freedom fighter. How do how do you write that in English? Okay. Sounds very different in French. Okay. This guy. So he was born a slave in in Heii. It was called Sumang. It's now called Hei. So he was born there. And when Napoleon relegalized slavery, Tusan Lu fought he fought the French. it I think it was 1804 two years later that Heii became independent. They defeated the French. Uh which year did Heii become independent? Once again independence independence year 1804. There you have it. Right. So the French tried to reimpose slavery in Heii but they failed and became independent. Heii won its independence from France in 1804 after a military conflict. They defeated the French. So they didn't work in Heii. Maicius slavery never went away. So it made no difference. In some places slavery had been abolished and you had people who had been emancipated means freed from slavery. What happened to those people? The emancipation was ruled back and they were brought back into slavery. Right? So how did relegalizing work in practice? Relegalizing means you don't just send a paper. You send a bunch of soldiers armed forces with with the papers to enforce the relegalization. So it was done through force. If you just tell the bunch bunch of former slaves who had been freed that you are slaves again, they will resist that. Right? So you have to arrive with reinforcements. So the French sent troops to various colonies to re to reimpose slavery and in many places where people had been emancipated freed they were dragged back into slavery and those who resisted were punished in various ways including the harshest ways. U so that's how relegal relegalizing worked in practice. You don't you don't merely send papers that it's slavery is legal again. you send reinforcements to enforce the relleization of slavery. So sometimes you make people slaves all over again. Sometimes you what you do is you give them some kind of contract indenture contract which essentially translates into slavery all over again like what was done to Indians by the British. Um yeah so that that's how it was done. It was done by force because nobody will willingly become a slave again. So you had to send troops and and reinforcements to enforce this. That's how the French did this. Pretty nasty stuff. Swami says, "What's the history of Jean Dak, Joan of Ark? Why did England execute her?" So her actual name was Jean D. Jean Dak. Okay. In English, she's called Jun of Ark, but the actual French name is Jean Dak. So as you can see she was born sometime in 1412 or something and uh she was murdered in 1431. We're talking about the 15th century here. Okay. So what's the story of this girl? So this period is the 100 day 100 year war between England and France. It's a period of time when England claims French France as its own territory. There are see these two nations they have a thousand-y year enmity France and England. There have been times when France has claimed England and you have French kings or French speaking kings ruling over England and then you have this 100 year war period when the English claimed France and they wanted to capture French territory and make France an English colony or or or an English possession or English territory and that the war is going on. So you have this king called Charles the 6 7th Charles I the 7th right Charles IIth Charles IIth u who was the French leader and uh we're talking about the early 15th century Joan Jean this girl is born somewhere in the northwest of France okay um 1412 or thereabouts and when she's a teenager she has visions she has visions of I don't know visions of some kind and uh visions from angels or saints or something and she and these visions tell her that she she she has to go and fight for France. She has to go and fight for the king of France or or the uncrowned king of France. The dufa the dufa is the uncrowned king of France Charles II. He had not been crowned yet. So the visions told her that you have to go and fight for France. Fight for France's freedom against the English. Go support your king. make him king. He's not king yet. And so on. So she somehow goes to the court of the Dufur of France, Charles II, and she's able to convince Charles the 7th that, you know, she has been sent by God. She has divine blessings or whatever. And uh she is sent to fight a battle. Uh it was Orlon, was it Orlian? I think it was Orlans. So she goes with the French troops to this city that the English are besieging Orleans and she's able to inspire the troops into defeating the English and then she's sent somewhere else and she succeeds there also right so she becomes this sensation this this divine girl girl with divine divine blessing a teenager 16 17 or whatever years old right and she's wearing armor she's wearing soldiers dress costume with armor and she's fighting She got she got wounded in all but she was able to succeed and she really galvanizes the troops and boosts their morale and the the French are resurgent and because of the success um Charles II is then crowned the king of France right so it looks like because of Jean Joan of Ark God is on the side of the French he is blessed by the god by by god not the gods They don't have the gods. They only have one god. And God is now on the side of France. Eventually, um, in some battle, she's captured by the English. Maybe there's some treason. Maybe she was captured by somebody and handed over to the British, whatever. Um, then the British they they what they do is they try her for for heresy or something. So, it was like this. See this girl, this young girl, peasant girl who has no military training. She has been able to inspire the French armies into victory over England. That clearly indicates that she has divine blessing. Now, how do you deal with that? One way of dealing with that is to claim that it was not divine blessing. It was satanic blessing. it was the devils or whatever who had who who were possessed this girl because if you say she's a she's a divinely blessed girl or something then it means that God was actually fighting on the side of France. So how do you how do you how do you challenge that? You the only way to challenge it is by claiming that she was actually possessed by devil devil or Satan or something like that or demons demons. Your visions were demonic visions. Satanic visions and you actually are are possessed and you and this girl this girl is wearing male dress. She's wearing male clothing and and armor. That is obviously completely contrary to the natural order of things and the will of God. That is so uncchristian for a woman to wear male costume and fight as a male soldier. Right? So they prepared these charges against this girl and then they said that they told the girl they brought her to court and there was this you know Christian hearing and all and she was said that she'll be immediately executed unless she recantss or whatever. So or or or she gives an undertaking that she will no longer do these things and you know my visions may be perhaps were not divine. So she agreed to write write this or or or put her signature or whatever it was on this confession and she agreed that uh I will not wear male male clothing and that and therefore therefore I will not offend God anymore. But then she's found to be wearing male clothing again in the prison because apparently the only clothing that was given to her was male clothing. So they did not give her female clothing. They gave her male clothing to wear and that's the only thing she had to wear because it was cold and you wear something right. So whatever available you wear it. So she's again found to be wearing male clothing. So they first tried to they they first gave her gave her the opportunity to to change her ways so that the entire persecution can look merciful. But then they gave her male clothing to wear. So they trapped her by doing so. And eventually they said that you know what she is not really a divinely blessed girl. She is she was the visions she had were demonic visions and we gave her the chance to to mend her ways but she in kept she insisted on keeping on wearing male clothing and so on which is why she has to be um she is condemned to death and she was then executed by the English. They burned her alive at the age of 18 or 19. Poor girl, right? All she did was fight for her country. Um, so that's the deal about Joan of Ark. The British were very nasty, very cruel, but you know, they did what they had to do, I suppose, from their perspective, the English. Uh, so that's why England executed Jon of Arc. Eventually, I think it was in the 20th century that the the Catholic Church u uh sainted her or something, beautified her. They declared her a saint and she's one of the saints u patron saints or whatever in France. So, if you go to Leon today, I'm sure you will find a statue of Jon of Arc there and so on. That's the story of Joan of Ark. Jean Amisha says, "Were the Irish and Italians really considered non-white in America. Were the Irish and Italians really considered non-white in America? What race were they? Uh why not white? And when and how did they become white? So look, the Irish and Italians obviously are European people, right? No question about that. So see in the US there's there's we have to look at it from two perspectives. There is something called legal race. Okay, the Americans had something called legal race. Uh so in American law, white meant European. No matter what part of Europe you came from, you were legally white if you were a European. And Irish and Italians obviously counted as white because they from from the from the very start in American law because they were from Europe. So legally they were white. They were eligible for naturalization. Okay? And they were never barred as a race the way Asians or Africans were. Not Africans, Africans were slaves. But Asians were barred from immigrating into the US and becoming naturalized citizens. Italians and Irish were not barred like that. So legally they were white. But there is something called social status or social race, racialized status. So in everyday life, so despite being legally white, in everyday life, the Italian and Irish people were portrayed as a different or inferior kind of white person. They were often compared to Africans and non-white races and they were described as being somehow lesser than proper white people, biologically lesser, morally lesser, culturally lesser than the Nordic people. Okay, so they were racially stigmatized. They were treated as if they were white but not quite white. Okay, that sort of thing. They were not legally non-white in the way that black people or Asian people were. So why is this so? So in the 19th century racial thinking in the western world, Europe was split into multiple races. See from an Indian or non European perspective, we see the white people as one people, right? White people, you don't see Russians as non-white, do you? You don't see the French and the Germans being two different kinds of white. You see them all as white people. But in their perspective, okay, Europe was divided into various races. You had the Anglo-Saxons, you had the Nordic people, Nordic people, Anglo-Saxons, Celtic people, Slavic people, the Mediterranean races and so on. And each of these was ranked differently in a hierarchy. Okay? So the Irish, so one of the things about the Irish people, there are two, this is an oversimplification, but if you visit Ireland, there are two kinds of Irish people. There's the red head redhaired red-headed Irish and there's the black Irish. What's black Irish? That's You have some Irish people who have got jet black hair, right? So you've got Irish with fair hair and you've got Irish with black hair. So there's two kinds of Irish even in Ireland and that's a whole different story. So the Irish are were not considered to be Anglo-Saxons or Nordic. They were considered to be Celtic people and they obviously are Celtic people and the stereotype was that Celtic people are less intelligent. They are more hottempered in tempmperate and the Celtic people are naturally suited for survile labor and they are naturally diff differential to their superiors to their betters who were the Anglo-Saxons and the and the the Nordics. Okay. Um anyway, all these these these terrible cartoons and carry catchers that depicted Irish people with with uh you know comparing them with monkeys essentially that sort of thing comparing them with black people also um and so on that sort of thing. And the Italians they were obviously not Celtic but they are part of the what what was considered to be the Mediterranean race which is a darker race. Okay. And it was believed that they are closer to the Asian people or to Africans but not they are very very different from the Nordic and Anglo-Saxon people. They're not really white. I mean if you go to Greece today for example, okay, Italy, Greece, neighboring regions. You go to Greece today, maybe four to 5% of Greek people have blonde hair and that to not the Nordic blonde but the dishwater blonde, dark blonde. Maybe four to 5% of Greek people have blonde hair. The overwhelming majority of Greek Greek people have dark hair. When it comes to blue eyes, maybe 5 to 10% of of Greek people have blue eyes or green eyes or gray eyes. The rest of Greek people, more than 10% have brown eyes. And the Greek skin color, well, it's closer to Persia and West India, Western India, then to Europe, then to the, you know, the the white European ideal, Nordic or Anglo-Saxon ideal. So clearly the the Italians and the Greeks are more brown than white. So there was that also. Uh then there's religion. Okay, religion is an is is an issue because uh the Irish and the Italians were Catholic but uh the country the United States was a strongly Protestant country. You know the roots from the Mayflower and whatnot were strongly Protestant roots. um and prot the Catholics well well you know there was this anti-atholic Catholic sentiment so Catholics were considered to be more superstitious than the Protestants um less industrious than the Protestants more violent than the Protestants and so on and once again the Irish and the Italians their languages obviously native languages were different their accents in English were different and so on their customs were also foreign and so Um so there are these issues and then you have you know the Irish and the Italians were poor people. They were new immigrants and they competed for the for the poor jobs you know the working man's job and all that and that led to friction and competition and so on which is an issue. Um and they were typically engaged in work that black laborers would do that sort of thing. They would work in fields. They would work in dockyards. They would work in small businesses typically in places where black people work would work. So they were associated with black people. That sort of thing. So because of this you had this issue that the Irish and the Italians were regarded as the perhaps in the Americas the lowest class of white people. Uh eventually what happened in the late 19th century 20th century Irish men started gaining power in politics, urban politics. They started becoming parts of police forces. They became parts of labor unions especially in cities like New York, Boston, Philadelphia. Okay. They became insiders in white urban power structures. Italians moved from the lowskilled trades into highly skilled trades, shopkeeping, uh various businesses and occupations and so on. So overall they started rising in social status and and so on and they obviously consciously decided to distance themselves from the black people. Maybe they became even more racist towards black people than the other whites were. And that's how eventually things changed. So that's how they became white so to say. And eventually what happens is that people assimilate people you know there are intermarages between Anglo-Saxons and white and Irish people Anglo-Saxons and Italian people and eventually the race distinctions uh eventually dissolve. So eventually that's what happened. So that's how the Irish and the Italians were considered kind of non-white and they faced a lot of discrimination, persecution, oppression, whatever. But eventually they were able to overcome these these these hardships. Okay. Okay. This is a question that has come from Twitter by K9 XE Empire. Uh let me come here and this is the question here. So I asked Gemini for its pure conclusion about the Arian invasion theory versus 10 kings war theory which I got to know from my channel and it provided me with this answer. What's my opinion on this? So Gemini's final verdict is is this. Gemini says, "If I have to draw a conclusion based purely on logic and available data, first of all, the Arian invasion theory is a myth. It makes no sense militarily or archaeologically. Second, the 10 kings theory is culturally superior. It it fits the texts. It fits the rear river geology, the Saraspati and all that and the psychology of the Indian people who have no memory of arriving from outside. It solves the paradox of prosperity that you mentioned earlier. However, the migration theory is scientifically dominant. Until out of India theory proponents can explain why the step DNA appears in India only after 2000 BC, the migration theory remains the standard scientific model. My unbiased conclusion, Gemini says, "The truth is likely somewhere in the middle, a nuanced reality where Indian civilization was indigenous as the 10 kings theory says, but interacted significantly with Central Asian groups who migrated in and mixed over thousands of years as the genetics say. So what is my view on what Gemini has to say? Look, Gemini makes sense here. The 10 k what is this 10 kings theory? First of all let's understand the the 10 kings theory is all it obviously refers to the battle of the 10 kings that is mentioned in the rigida and the rigida is a very ancient text. It's not something that was written in 1500 BC which is arbitrarily assigned to it. It was clearly written a long time before 1500 BC when the Sarasbati was still in her prime 1500 BC the Sarasati had dried out in the southern half of our course. So clearly the rigid was written closer to the time the Sarasati was in her prime that is like the last time it was in her prime. The river was about 6,000 BC. The closer to that time maybe 4,000 BC maybe even 3,000 BC but definitely not 2,000 BC or even 3,000 BC doesn't make sense. Maybe 4,000 5,000 6,000 BC BC is the Rigida's probable time period. Okay. Um and in the Rigida we have the we have this the oldest geopolitical event in the world warfare. Yeah. the battle of the 10 kings. Um, and that kind of explains the dispersal of the Indo-Uropean languages outside of India and the formation of the Indian psyche, the Indian ethos and so on. So that's the 10 kings theory, right? That that is the essential origin of Indian civilization that after the battle of the 10 kings it was decided that when a yagna is done we will not merely allow we we will not merely welcome the the vic gods but all the other gods of all the other Indian people who may not be vicin that's why we have so many gods today in Hinduism you're all welcome all your gods are welcome we are all now going to be one people so that's kind of the origins of Indian civilization, right? One of the the origins of of the idea of India, let's say that is the original idea of India, right? Indian civilization obviously goes back much before that also. So that is the 10 kings theory. So Gemini says the truth is somewhere in the middle most likely a nuance reality where Indian civilization was indigenous and I completely agree with this. What is what are the two main characteristics of Indian civilization? First, there are two things that are central to Indian civilization. First is what we call Hinduism which includes all these different you know philosophical parts or philosophical schools of thought you know vidanta naya vashik vashik uh yoga mimmansa charvaka bodha jaya all of that all of this is part of what we call Hinduism very ancient the oldest known religion right so the first component of Indian civilization is what we call Hinduism. The second component is the linguistic core which is Sanskrit. So Gemini says that Indian civilization which means Hinduism and Sanskrit was indigenous to India. Well, I completely agree with Gemini on this. And then our people interacted significantly with Central Asian groups who migrated in and mixed over thousands of years. I completely agree with that too. I completely agree with that. See the core claim of the Arian invasion or migration theory. Okay. The hidden claim the core hidden claim of the Arian invasion or migration theory is that Hinduism and Sanskrit are foreign to India. They were brought in by invaders or migrants. And Gemini says that is completely wrong. Gemini disagrees with that. And I completely agree with Gemini. Gemini of course we had interactions with Central Asian groups. They did migrate into India over thousands of years. Right? After thousands of years after the Rigida was written, Gemini is completely right. I completely agree with this. So this migration theory is scientifically dominant which Gemini says here migration theory is scientifically dominant. It's that central Asian groups from time to time over thousands of years migrated into India and brought in Central Asian genetics. Of course, today every single ethnic group in the world wants to migrate to the United States because it is so prosperous, best quality of life and in the past you had India that was that in that situation. So everybody wanted to migrate to India. So you would obviously have genetic influx into India from time to time all the time over thousands of years and that's why we have central Asian genetics in India. You know people in various parts of India will have some percentage of Central Asian genetics. What's the big deal? Of course it's there. But to claim that Hinduism and Sanskrit came from outside of India, that is completely incorrect. And Gemini recognizes that. You see, Gemini recognizes that Indian civilization was indigenous, which means Hinduism and Sanskrit were indigenous. Didn't come from outside. Completely agree with this. So yeah, [clears throat] Gemini, good to see a large language model that actually is makes sense. It's [snorts] it's it's supposed to make sense and it is making sense over here. Absolutely. So I agree with this. All right. Gaj Nulk says, "Was worship through fire such as in Jagnas the primary the original primary method of worship done by prehistoric humans? Given that prehistoric humans would virtually always have a campfire burning in or near their places of residence, homes, but construction of large idols would require more effort and construction of artistically sculpted metal idols took off on a large scale only recently in human history. So was worship through fire the original primary method of worship done by prehistoric humans? Well, actually no. fire worship. We don't find evidence of fire worship in ancient human archaeological evidence, evidence from of ancient humans. So what is the evidence of religion that we find when it comes to ancient humans? We find burial goods. So when a human being a deceased dead person has been buried you find that that body has been buried with various goods. If it's a warrior it will be a sword, maybe it will be some shells. Maybe it will be some valuable items. So items that are valuable in the real world but you are burying with that person. Why bury it with a dead person when you can actually use it and it's valuable to you but you still bury it with the person which means that you are taking something that's precious valuable and you are burying it forever which means that you assign a tremendous amount of value to that person who has been buried. Maybe you love that person. Maybe it's broken your heart that person died and maybe you want that person to enjoy whatever you're burying with with him or her in their afterlife which is obviously a religious concept right religious or spiritual concept. So you find human burials with grave goods that date back hundreds not hundreds of thousands of years maybe maybe up to 100 thousand years. Then you have pigments ochre red ochre that that you know you find on people's faces on skulls and all which obviously once again why would you when you bury somebody put red ochre pigment on their faces and bodies. Maybe clearly it will have some kind of religious or spiritual significance. Maybe red red ochre was auspicious or something maybe it will help them help ease their path in the afterlife or whatever then you will find even near burials if you study the soil around the around the skeleton that's buried you'll find pollen pollen comes from flowers so people buried with flowers I mean it's such a touching and and emotional thing right you you bury a person with flowers so you find all these things and then you find um cave art, cave painting and all with figures that with with symbolism that that could signify religious uh religion of some kind. What else you find these little what they call Venus statueets uh female figures that again could have some religious or whatever connotations and whatnot. So these are the kind of uh archaeological um artifacts [snorts] and evidences that we find of religious and spiritual practices and behavior. Cave art, wall art, rock art, statueets, figurines, burial goods, burial pigments, flowers in in burials and so on. This is what we find in the archaeological record as evidence of spiritual and religious practices and beliefs. Okay, we find campfires and whatn not but we never find campfires and other other fire other evidence of fire which seems to have any religious significance. We we find it you know as something that was used for cooking or whatever or for warmth but you never find anything that indicates any special religious significance. Um you know typically in in in Hinduism we have the Vic falcon falcon-shaped fire altar in which we do the yagjana yagna right that is a very specific way of constructing a fire and you will see all kinds of offerings that are offered in there you don't find any of that in ancient um archaeological evidence so looks like fire worship was something specific to the Arian people to the Indians and the Iranians doesn't look like it was there anywhere else in the world. So in Yajjnas what we have is we have a pantheon of the gods the Vic gods and who is the messenger of the Vic gods it's Agni. So if you want to offer offerings to the Vic gods you have to offer it to Agni. Agni is the messenger the witness of the gods and whatever you offer to Agni Agni will take it to the gods and that's a concept you even have in Zoroastrianism which came after Hinduism when there was a change cultural religious change in Persia right but they call it the yasna we call it yajna they call it yasna but it's the same thing they also have the same thing so it's so fire worship seems to be seems to be a practice that the Arya people developed. It wasn't there before us. Okay. Dark Knight says, "Why were Hindu social reformers in the 19th century so opposed to idol worship?" Brahmo samaj samaj and many of them were against it. You know the only social reform that India needed in the 19th century was the eviction of the foreign occupiers of India. That was the only social reform India needed. India was under brutal barbaric foreign occupation. The only social reform needed in India was the eviction of the foreign occupiers. But then you had these reform movements who wanted to reform Hinduism and they were opposed to very central concepts in in Hindu dharma opposed to bhorti puja why so I will not take any names of any individuals because it will hurt people's sentiment some people's sentiments so I will not take the names of these various social so-called social reformers but it always appeared to be that they were somehow in some shape or for or form aligned with British interests, right? I mean who why do you have to propagate this idea that mortuja is evil or bad? It is some kind of a superstition or some kind of defect. Why? Why do you want to abrahamize Hindu dharma? I I never I'm never able to I never got it. Why? Until I considered the possibility that maybe some of these people or maybe they were aligned with British interests or other interests in some shape or form. Okay. The only social reform India needed was the eviction of the foreign occupiers. That's all that was needed. So yeah, deeply suspicious. That's what that's what I'll say. Okay, Niraj Desai says why are places why why are names of places like Wasco in Goa not changed? A few years ago Oruranga or the name of Orurangabad was changed to Chhatrapati Shambhaji Nagar but there are still many places named after intruders after invaders after foreign occupiers. Why is that? Because India is still still deeply colonized. India is still deeply mentally colonized. You go to Vasco in Goa. I mean I mean I have never been to Wasco in Goa. I've never been to Goa. >> So forget about Vasco as an as an example. Let's take some other example. There is a place called Muridabad named after Murid Kuli Khan or something. Why do we have to name PE places after the names of invaders? And and and who was the guy who destroyed Nalanda? I think something is named after him too, right? The the nearby railway station is named after the guy who destroyed Nalanda. What is the name? One second. Uh Baktiarpur, right? Baktiur. Baktiarpur. Right. Named after named after whom it's named after Muhammad Ibin Bakti Gi is known for destroying Nalandanda and Vikram Shila and we have named a town after this guy and we we still haven't changed the name. I don't know why. So this I suppose maybe the people who live there are proud of being of the place being called Baktiur possibly. I don't I'm guessing. So maybe it's that many of these places that are named after foreign occupiers and invaders and barbarians. Maybe the people who live there may be proud of the city being named after those people. I don't know. India is still deeply deeply mentally colonized. We don't teach in our education system what these barbarians did to us. I've heard that NCERT textbooks have changed kind of. Do the NCERT textbooks now teach students how the British systematically engineered famines in India and killed hundreds of millions of Indians? I'm not sure they do. They're changing a few things here and there and Indians are like celebrating. Yes, we're good now. No, you're not good. So there if you want to if you want to solve these issues, you you to reform the education system, which is nowhere near happening. And that's why the names of places are not changed. We still are proud of the names of places named after invaders. We we proud of it. It's very sad but it is what it is. Yes. Amisha says why did the industrial revolution happen in Europe and not at the time more developed more developed civilizations like China, India and Arabia. I'm not sure if Arabia was a a developed civilization but China and India certainly were. So why did this industrial revolution happen in Europe not China not India? H see the industrial revolution is something that happened in the mid 18th century right and a bunch of conditions came together to make it happen. What shaped [snorts] what caused what precipitated the the industrial revolution was a bunch of factors like abundant energy, access to big markets, um abundant energy, abundant resources, access to huge markets, uh institutions that that that allowed the the development of technology and ideas, new new ideas that bring that that gave rise to the technologies, right? So a bunch of things came together and there these things did not exist in the same place at the same time in India and China or in the Islamic world at the time. So first of all energy like I said you needed access to abundant energy which is coal. So if you look at England for example, if you look at Belgium, if you look at Germany, they had access to abundant coal near the industrial centers they were creating. Then they had access to to resources that were coming in from overseas colonies especially England. They would bring in resources, they would bring in materials and then they would transform them into finished products. Then they had access to colonies. So the the British, they had access to the Americas, they had access to the Caribbean, they obviously had access to India, the major crown jewel of their empire. They had access to resources that that came in from Africa also, right? And various parts of Asia. So these resources all came in these raw materials they they they would bring in from these parts of the world and they would transform them into finished products. Then they had this capitalist culture, capitalist structure. They had strong financial institutions. They had legal protection for for private property. They were easily able to mobilize capital through through joint stock companies. They had insurance. They had legislation that was friendly to to investors and entrepreneurs. So all these things made it easy to mobilize the capital you needed for factories, for infrastructure, for mines, all of that. Then one thing that you had in England and some of these countries is that you had high wages relative to the cost of energy. Okay. So energy costs whatever per unit whatever and compared to that the cost of labor per unit is pretty high. And that incentivized machines that were laborsaving in nature. That's why these nations produced these economically attractive laborsaving machines. Automation, right? Then what you had in Europe was you had many competing nations. There's political fragmentation in Europe. You don't have a single empire in Europe. you had you had many competing nations, many competing states. So that created the incentive in nations like England to innovate rapidly on a war footing in technology, in finance, in in warfare also, right? Um and then you had in England the the the tradition of piracy when the Americas were being taken over by the by the Spaniards and the English were left behind. Queen uh Elizabeth, she essentially supported piracy, state sponsored piracy. So you had that you so they were very willing to cut corners and do things that were illegal as per the rules-based world order and the objective was to was to win. So you had that and you had you had the Elizabeth and age in England um that was the precursor to the industrial revolution that that supported science and technology which was no longer overtly religious um and that that's why you had in England things like scientific societies that came up patent systems universities that were increasingly open to physics to natural philosophy and all of this then linked the practical mechanics with theoretical science and that gave rise is to eventually the perfect conditions for creating an industrial revolution and because the European nations were were so competitive that's why they they sought to expand territories elsewhere and that also gave rise to the era of colonization of of foreign occupation of the Americas of Africa of India eventually various parts of Asia and so on so all of these factors came together and they do not we do not have these factors in let's say China or India um all the factors at the same time in the same place that's why you have this industrial revolution in Europe and not other places says the exodus of Israelites from Egypt the truth versus narrative so the foundation story of Israel is that the Israelite people were enslaved in Egypt and then they were they were they were they were they They were they were freed by Moses who took them to freedom. They crossed the Red Sea because Moses parted the Red Sea. They crossed the Red Sea and they came into the Sinai Peninsula and they spent decades wandering the Sinai Peninsula and eventually uh populated Israel. So that is the national foundation story of Israel. Okay. Now what's the truth is the question. the truth. U first you you ask yourself, do we have any archaeological evidence of the presence of Jewish people in ancient Egypt before let's say 1,00 BC? Actually, you don't. There's no any there's there's no hard unambiguous archaeological evidence of any presence of Israeli or or Jewish people in Egypt before 1,00 [clears throat] u BC. Uh you do have the the Hikos, okay, the Hicks who were who invaded and occupied Egypt for a century and a half. The Hicks, okay, let's go to that. Uh which I've spoken about in the past. The Hixos, they uh ruled Egypt between 1630 and 1523. And some historians interpret the Hixos as a Sematic people. Okay, sematic people. Because Hixos had war chariots, they had curved double curved boughs. They brought in new technology like the axe and the ball. And they had a storm god or a thunder god. They brought in horses. But if you look at the characteristics of the Hixos, they could very well also be Arian people. And actually the the they seem more like Arian people than Semitic people, right? But the consensus right now is that the Hixos were Semitic people. But the Hixos were invaders and rulers. How would they be slaves? But the Hixos eventually were defeated and went back. But maybe some of them did not go back and maybe they were enslaved. So that is a very far-fetched interpretation. The Hixos from the way I see it were not Semitic. They were more of Indo-Iranian or something because at the same time you very very soon you have the Mitani and the Hittite empires that come up north of Sai in Anatolia which seem to be to have the same culture as Hos. But the mainstream consensus is that the Hixos were sematic people. Maybe Babylonian people. Maybe the god they worshiped was was Bal, the storm god, but not the the thunder god of the Arians. Not that. So So if you were to claim that the Hixos were related to the Israel Israelite people and they were enslaved, that is incredibly far-fetched. We also know that you had the Israeli people who who existed maybe around 1300 BC or something in what is now Israel that that region. So if they already existed there, how do you have them enslaved in Egypt? So it doesn't really add up. But that doesn't mean it did not have happen. Maybe a small number of Jewish people were indeed possibly potentially enslaved in Israel in in in Egypt. maybe 1500 BC or thereabouts and maybe they they were able to escape eventually and their story became the national founding story of Israel perhaps that is speculation but from an from a from the perspective of hard evidence we don't have any hard evidence of u of Jewish people being enslaved in Egypt there's no hard evidence it doesn't mean that it did not happen but there's no hard evidence Okay. Uh, we still have more questions, but we have gone way past two hours. So, I will now end the Q&A. I I can take some questions from the live chat potentially. Um, and I can see we have 19 super chats. So, I'm going to have to take those. [laughter] 19 super chats. So, let's go through the super chats. Uh, please don't take any more super chats because otherwise this live stream will never end. Um so VSVS thank you very much sir and vss thank you very much for gifting memberships I really appreciate that you are very kind very grateful and uh yeah now Mr. Sid says, "What's the history and the roots of Malayalis in Malalam?" The Malali people in the Malam language I am not very sure. I have not studied this in any significant detail. What I know is that the Mallayalam language is pretty similar to Tamil. There are definite connections between the Mallayalam language and the Tamil language. But malam has more Sanskrit words than Tamil. Maybe 45% of Mallayalam vocabulary will have its origins in Sanskrit. Tamil maybe 30% 35% maybe slightly less but what's the origins I am not sure I have not studied this in in any significant detail so uh I can't answer sorry about that shakshinat says um what do you think of the India UAE deal especially the civil nuclear agreement for reactors that happened a few days ago with the king of the UAE coming to Delhi for only a few hours so I spoke about this in detail a while ago I think it's a redundant question but uh I think it's a very interesting deal. Um the contours, the parameters, the details of the deal haven't been spelled out in great detail, but we know that there is a there is a potential defense agreement between the two nations. Um there is going to be more cooperation in a variety of sectors between the two nations. There is a civil nuclear agreement of some kind. What are the details? I'm still not 100% clear, but we'll we'll wait for more details to emerge. So overall, I think this is fantastic. It's great that we are deepening our cooperation with the UAE, a like-minded nation, a very friendly nation in the Gulf region, in the West Asia region. Um, at least 40% of the UAE's population is of Indian origin. I'm not saying citizens, but population. Um and what we are not seeing behind the scenes I mean if you are witnessing this it may look like India and the UAE are coming together to counter Saudi Arabia Pakistan but behind the scenes in the Saudi Arabia Pakistan relationship there is also Turkey which we don't which which is not that visible and when it comes to India and UAE there is Israel that's also on the same side. So it's essentially India, Israel, UAE on one side, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Turkey on another another side. So that's what's happening. You you're kind of seeing a split of some kind. Um and overall it's good for India. It's good for India. It's good for the UAE. It's good for the entire region overall. ICMBBS says, "Is Donald J. Trump more overt about US intentions or just erratic?" He's not erratic. He knows exactly what he's doing. There's a there's a pattern to everything he's doing. He's securing America's energy interests. First of all, Venezuela's energy interests, Iran potentially is energy interests, right? And by securing America's energy interests and the global energy sources, he's piling on the pressure on China and all of that it fits fits a pattern. He's putting more pressure on his his vasals, his his allies, his his assets in the EU and NATO. That also makes the US more stronger. If he acquires Greenland, it's better for the US. Anyway, Denmark has no way of stopping the US to do from doing it. You can't have a power vacuum. Um, so overall, he is strengthening the American position in the world. He's rewriting the rules of the game when it comes to his vasals. He's telling them now the rules have changed. Um so he's not being erratic. He's being very open about the US and its status as an imperial power. Right? So it's it's very clear that whatever he's doing is all about making the making the US more powerful. He knows the Chinese are extremely wary of any kind of military entanglement with the US and he's going to take that and drive home the advantage based on this restraint that China has. So what he's doing is great for the US actually. [clears throat] Jior TV says is Greenland being done because the ice there is melting really fast and an Arctic shipping lane is emerging. What's happening? See if you look at the Greenland region. Okay, I'm not sure if the satellite images will show us the situation, but let's let's try. So, we're looking at the map of the world. We Let's go all the way up north. If you see between Russia and North America, we have Greenland very clearly. Now, if you look at the satellite image, you will see if you zoom in, this is a satellite image. Terrain. Terrain. What are we doing? I'm not sure. Okay. So, [snorts] it's icebound. This entire region is very bigly very bigly icebound. Okay. The thing is that as the climate, as the global climate gets warmer, you will find that you will have the northern region becoming more passible over the years, which means that ships will be able to fly over here. uh the ice will not be there all year round and that will make this place a contested region because there's a lot of resources to be found in this region. Oil, gas, natural resources, minerals, what not? And Greenland is a big part of that. Now, is the ice melting in Greenland? It's not. Greenland has this massive sheet of ice that's been there for thousands of years because Greenland, if you can't see the topography over here, but it has these mountains that are keeping all the ancient ice uh stuck inside. It's see ice sheets, how do they melt? They essentially slide into into the ocean. But when you have Greenland ringed with mountains all over the place, the ice is trapped inside. So it's very ancient ice that's trapped inside and it's not really melting really fast. But the the overall northern Arctic region, it's becoming more passible by more traversible by by by ship as time goes by. So as that passage these passages open up there's going to be more competition for for for primacy in this region and that's why Trump wants to grab Greenland right now. Makes sense. Arctic ship in lanes. Yeah. That's right. Absolutely. Naven Johawan says Israel has the Samson option as ultimate deterrence. Does India have a comparable civilizational a Mahakal doctrine or only regional nuclear posture? We haven't communicated any of this. >> [clears throat] >> The US has the mega Samson Samson option. If there's a nuclear strike on the US, the US will nuke every significant country in the world including India. Whether you've done something or not doesn't matter. They're going to nuke everybody. The isra has a sen option in which it has a allegedly a list of nations it will nuke if it is going down in a nuclear strike. What nations these are? They know. Uh does India have something to this? Not that we have communicated. We haven't communicated any such thing. We probably have um assured retaliation. If someone launches a nuke at us and and you know detonates a nuke on our territory, we're going to nuke them back. That's the kind of assurance we give. But we don't have as far as I know a Samson option or something Mahakal doctrine or whatever. We have never communicated any such thing. Jor TV says, "I wanted to understand if we are able to build our own fifth generation combat aircraft, which is an extreme extremely complex job, then why don't we also work on basic logistics aircrafts like the Embraer C 390? If Brazil can do this, why can't we?" Well, that's a great question. What is the Embraer C3 C uh 390? Let's see. Embryer C390. What is this? It is this transport aircraft. Twin jet engine twin engine jet powered military transport aircraft. Medium-sized aircraft. Why don't we build such aircraft? Why don't why do we have to import everything from elsewhere? Why doesn't India have an industry that manufactures aircraft of that are comparable to this? The Americans have they make their own aircraft all of all kinds. The Chinese have repurposed Russian designs of aircraft and they now manufacture their own massive transport aircraft. The Russians also do this. We simply import everything. So we are in the process of you know designing and building our fifth generation combat aircraft. Sure we know that it's a complex job but we are we're going to get it done next decade or so, right? But why don't we build? Why don't we work on these transport aircraft and all that? Why not? I just don't know why. Maybe it's a lack of ambition. Maybe it's a lack of seriousness. Maybe we are not a serious nation. Maybe our leaders don't think it's important. Why haven't we been doing this? The Brazilians could do it. Why? Why don't we do it? We are now kind of getting a little serious. We we are going to build the super sukoy in India. Uh super sukoy. What is that? Super Sukcoy 100. Super Sukoy 100 which is the the SJ 100, right? It's a it's it's a civilian transport aircraft. Medium-sized. It can carry maybe a 100 people. And we're going to be we're going to set up production lines for this in India eventually some someday in the future. Yeah. But why don't we build transport aircraft? We should, right? We should build transport aircraft. We should build strategic bombers. We've never even attempted this. It tells you our leadership in the past decades has never considered this to be important. Is it not important? It is super important. So it's it's lack of quality leadership, lack of ambition, lack of seriousness. I don't have any other answer. We should have all this in India. We should be building our own aircraft of all kinds. But we're not. Of course, in recent times, we have made progress. We have the the fighter plane. Various iterations are being worked upon. We are working on the AMCA. We also have uh the light combat helicopter. We also have the other helicopter. So we are now taking it seriously and we are slowly starting to build various kinds of aircraft but this I don't see that happening right now. Maybe we should right maybe we should not maybe we definitely should. Aayush Gupta says the best comment is by Musk. It's peace not peace. Did he say that? That's an interesting comment. Okay. Died in plane crush says SH is okay. Air pollution in Northern India. Yeah, the the air quality is terrible in northern India. I'm not sure what it is right now. I was in Delhi about a week ago. It was absolutely terrible. Um obviously it will affect people's lungs. The kind of air pollution you have it's like people are smoking a cigarette a minute that sort of thing. I mean you can see the smoke in the air visible. Uh will this affect the performance of armed forces personnel? Maybe not. Nothing significant I suppose. You know when people spend their entire lives in northern India obviously this is this is a phenomenon that's more recent 20 years ago you do not have the same kind of air pollution that we have right now obviously it's going to have some kind of effect on your overall performance as a human being if you're a soldier it may perhaps decrease your performance by one or two% perhaps maybe [snorts] even 5% but overall it makes no doesn't probably doesn't make a significant impact but obviously I I agree with you that this needs to be addressed. You kind of have people living in gas chambers. It's terrible. Terrible. So, it needs to be addressed. Uh had to write in Hindi as YouTube won't allow otherwise. Well, that's very interesting. YouTube won't allow it unless you write in Hindi. Okay. [laughter] All right. Chirajad says, "Why did Brnavv see socialism with the human face as a threat to the Soviet block and which ultimately led to the crushing of the Prague spring?" socialism of the human face. Crushing of the Prague Spring. See the crushing of the Prague Spring was what? 1960 something 50. Let me just check out the date. Crushing 60 something. Crushing. Crushing of Prague Spring. Crushing. Yeah. 68. Yeah. So they invaded Czechoslovakia and ended the Prague Spring. Czechoslovakia was was um part of the Warso packed grouping of nations, right? Um the Soviet block. So there was this demand for freedom for for for democracy and so on in Czechoslovakia. The Soviet Union was okay with everything as long as there was no question of questioning the supremacy of the USSR. And if that comes under threat then obviously you send in tanks, right? So it was not that socialism with a human face was a threat to the Soviet block. The threat to the Soviet block was that certain nations would potentially see this as a weakness and they may try to secede from the Soviet block and maybe become part of the western block. That obviously is was intolerable and that's why the Soviets when they saw that there was a revolt and the revolters demanded freedom from the USSR that's when you had to send in tanks as simple as that. DH Kotwani is a new member. Thank you very much sir. Thank you very much and welcome to the membership of the channel. Thank you. Brown Leprechaun says, "Assuming the painter didn't die in 1945, why did the Americans allow him to exist? Why would the Americans allow the painter to exist?" Well, the painter, if he did exist, he would have not if he if he did continue existing, let's say hypothetically the painter did not die in 45 and maybe hypothetically he went and settled down in South America perhaps somewhere. Uh Adolf Iikman was found in Argentina. Apparently, Mangalia was also found in Argentina, but he was never never captured by the Israelis. So maybe many of these ex-Nazis had settled in South America, maybe Argentina. And hypothetically, if the painter had also settled there, why would the Americans allow him to exist? Well, hypothetically, if this was true, the painter would not have posed any more threat to the US. Then maybe first of all he didn't pose any threat when Shinkis Khan decided that he will not cross the Indis river in pursuit of Jalaludin in 1221 or wherever it was 1220 1221 AD it's because Jalodin had lost his army jingishan destroyed his army and Jaladin no longer posed a threat so let him go into India let him go to Deli and seek refuge in Iltmish's court. He no longer poses a threat. He's no longer significant. Let him go. That was Chingish Khan's logic. So maybe the Americans may have employed a similar logic if the painter hypothetically had settled in South America. Maybe that's that's one hypothetical reason why the Americans may have allowed him to exist. Maybe could he provide some services to them like the some of the Nazis did because some Nazis were elevated to very high positions by the Americans. Um NATO chief of staff staff what was what was his name? U NATO commander Nazi who was Adolf Hoisinger. Adolf Hoisinger right there. We have this guy. So he What was his NATO designation? NATO chief of staff. Yeah. So the Americans were okay with Nazis as long as they were useful. And maybe maybe the painter maybe may not have been useful, but maybe he did not pose any threat. Uh, it's only speculation. Can't really say. NPS says, "How Spain successfully reclaimed their Christian identity after Islamic rule ended Spaniards made churches again after destroy destroying Islamic structures. Did they face any resistance like we see in India? I'm not sure what resistance we see in India, but uh, okay. the Spain reclaiming its Christian identity and expelling the North African Moors and the Arabs. It's called the reconista, the reconquest of Spain from the foreigners. Okay. So, Islamic rule did not end overnight. It was a long long long process of several centuries. Reconista, how many centuries did it lasted? Several centuries, maybe seven centuries. Reconista, how many centuries? many years. Uh so it's like several centuries. See 718 to 1492 almost 700 800 years. The Spaniards fought for almost 8 centuries to finally fully evict the foreigners from their their land. Okay. It was a long long long arduous struggle almost 800 years. It's not like they fought over a weekend and then won. 800 years they fought almost that's how they were able to finally successfully reclaim their their land and eject the Arabs and the Moors from Spain they faced tremendous resistance obviously if it lasted 800 years almost right so there are the deal was a long long long struggle for the Spaniards Shashank says it seems global deterrence moved from military force to controlling chips energy social media why our nations still planning for 20th century wars because 20th century wars see we not no one's planning for 20th century wars people are planning for 21st century wars I mean Ukraine is happening right it's still a war whether we have chips energy social media Ukraine war is still happening if China tries to take tries to take Taiwan it won't take Taiwan with social media or chips or energy but energy will play a factor will play a role it will be a big factor if China doesn't have sufficient energy energy oil and gas then it won't be able to invade Taiwan. When it comes to chips, chips are the foundation of data and AI, right? Chips are behind all this, not data, but AI. The nation with the best AI will have the best strategies and tactics. It'll be able to adapt in real time to changing and evolving battle conditions. But at the end of the day, a war is fought through kinetic means, not through social media and energy and chips. Energy is obviously there. You can't fight a war without energy resources. And you will fight a better war if you have the better AI, right? And you can fight a better war if you can de demoralize the population of the inomination through social media manipulation. So everything is inter integrated now. But wars are still fought through chinetic means through bombs. Now we have drones. Now you're going to have autonomous uh elements in warfare, automated uh elements like drone warfare. Sometimes a drone can be completely autonomous. Uh so we are now planning for 21st century scenarios where everything is integrated. cyber warfare, AI, social media, energy, chips, space, all of this comes together and kinetic means, right? So if you so India also has adopted, right? When you saw operation Synindur, you had some AI, you had automation for sure, you had drones. India excelled in drones, drone warfare, the aerial war. So it's not like we are still planning for 20th century wars and the cautionary message you are sending here is very well received. So nations that plan that that fail to adapt to the evolving situation of the 20th century and still keep on planning for 20th century wars they're going to fail. So if you have a nation whose air force still wants to be the best air force in dog fighting what that is 20th century warfare. Nobody does dog fighting today. Today the the today you take out the adversaries assets from 100 kilometers away. There's no dog fighting anymore. That's fifth generation warfare. Right. In terms of aerial warfare. So you are right to caution to to put in this word of caution that we can't plan for 20th century wars. We have to adapt to the 21st century scenario where everything is integrated. Unamalai says can anyone file a case in Supreme Court to make Indian temples come out of the control of the Indian government? Temple money is getting lost. I don't understand I don't know how it is done whether this can work or not and I anyway don't I don't comment about internal matters in India. I talk about geopolitics history and science. This is internal affairs in India. I don't know how the legal system works whether this will work or not. So I can't say sorry. [laughter] Excuse me. Pre LTP says, "Why tech billiondoll investment in Greenland?" I'm not aware of tech billion dollar investment in Greenland. I'm not aware. I'll have to look into it. I don't really know at this point in time. Sahil says, "I am getting a bit depressed on will we ever reach European level of quality of life and urban infrastructure and cleanliness in India in our lifetimes." Um hopefully we do hopefully we do uh a lot will have to change for that to happen. India will have to become a you know a middle income nation for us to reach the quality of life and also we'll have to deal with certain internal structural issues and we'll have to bring in some reforms. It certainly is possible. Um if India keeps growing at the current rate 6 7 8% per year for the next 20 years we're going to reach the per capita GDP of a middle income nation. And if if we reach there then we should reasonably it would be reasonable for us to expect those standards but for those standards to happen even if you're a middle incumbent but let's say if you allegedly have corruption all over the place and so on then you will never improve into the standards. So those reformative actions will have to be taken uh it is certainly possible with the right leadership. So possible is it? It certainly is possible but it will depend on the kind of leadership that we have over the next 20 years. So let's be optimistic. All right. Jazz 1993 forever says, "Be watching your videos since 2021. I always recommend your videos to my friends and family members cuz you explain in simple terms which is easy to understand. Please do a meet up in Mumbai at some place of for your subscribers. First of all, thank you so much. Thank you so much for having been a viewer since 2021 and being so kind as to recommend uh my videos to friends and family. Thank you so much. I try my best to keep things as simple as possible. You can explain things in a complicated way if you want to start if you want to sound smart and intelligent and impress everybody, but then you defeat the purpose of what you're trying to do. So, I try to keep it as simple as possible and that's that's what I've striven to do over the past four or so years. So thank you so much. Uh meet up in Mumbai at some place for my sub subscribers. Okay, I will consider that. Um it certainly can be planned and organized I suppose. So yeah, thank you for the suggestion. I will uh consider that seriously. Thank you. Feels strong man says you've mentioned that India should keep quiet and keep working towards 10 trillion dollar economy and currently we we are boastful with proclamation of vixit bharat but we need positive perception plus motivation plus fdi to combat global anti-India sentiment. No oh yes yes we should portray India correctly as a very attractive destination for investment. We should also say that we are improving on various parameters. right that India is becoming more vixit see look at the infrastructure we're building look at the roads we're building look at the railway network we're building look at the UPI that is so successful talk about all these things but don't talk about we are becoming a superpower vishwaguru and look at our military capabilities and all that you keep quiet you should know what you should talk about and you should know what you keep quiet about don't boast about us becoming a superpower like so many Indians do it did that we will beat you, we'll defeat Pakistan is nothing and Saudi Arabia is nothing and Turkey is nothing and we'll defeat you and all the just keep quiet all these things right so obviously we have to portray India as a good destination for investment good destination for tourism a cultural you know superpower and so on but let's keep quiet about whatever else right let's not start getting ahead of ourselves okay godliness says there are chatters that Iran may now have the nuclear bomb. What's my view? And I also know for geopolitics, we need Iran, but what that Islamist is doing on the street with his own people is disgusting. What is that Islamist doing on his streets with his own people? Whatever you think is happening, it's coming from Western media. I was recently on a on on a podcast, okay, as a guest and the host tells me Iran in Iran 12,000 people have died. I said, "What's your evidence? You're a journalist. You're claiming 12,000 people have died. What's the evidence that 12,000 people have died? If you make a claim as a journalist, you need to have some evidence to back it up. Do you have people on the ground who have counted the 12,000 dead? Do you have actual video or photographic evidence of 12,000 people dead? or the western media that's reporting this do they have evidence of this on what basis are these numbers been thrown out and there's no answer to it so I don't know see in India the Indian media just repeats the talking points of the west of the western media there is no original reporting in India nothing and that's why Indians simply believe whatever the west is telling them that so many thousands of people have been killed in Iran by the Islamist regime there is zero evidence to back it up We see some videos of violence. We see some people who are unfortunately deceased and all that, but it's not 12,000. We see some videos of people firing at crowds. Who are those people? Are they Iranian government forces in plain clothes or are they foreign agents in plain clothes? We don't know. So, how can you come to the conclusion that so and so is happening in Iran because the BBC is saying it or CNN is saying it or whatever? Oh, I mean have some sense, use some critical thinking, not simply blindly believe what the media tells you. Western media now about Iran having the nuclear bomb potentially. It may I have been saying this for like two years at least that Iran definitely will have sufficient file material weapons grade uranium potentially for a few nuclear bombs maybe five maybe 510 they may have it but they have been very scared to operationalize the nuclear deterrent haven't they to operationalize a nuclear deterrent you need to conduct at least one nuclear test when that is done you are now demonstrated nuclear power. Iran has never done that. Too scared, right? And see where they are today. Um, it's possible they may have it. But if they want to be a credible nuclear power and to deter regime change and what not, they will need to well, unfortunately demonstrate they have one by doing at least one nuclear test. Godliness says the big eagle can use Kurish people for fighting against the barbarians of ISIS. But now those who saved us all from jihad are left to die. See that's that's the thing. The world isn't a fair place if you will allow yourself to be used as a pawn by a foreign power. Pawns are disposable pieces. Right? Of course, the Kurdish people desire to they seek to have their own homeland. No one's going to give them a homeland of their own, right? So sometimes they'll be used to fight ISIS then next ISIS will be will will be used to fight the Kurds and so on. That is the way the big powers the western powers have always played. That's the game they've always played. Take one group and make make them fight another. Then next then a few months later the one you're fighting against now they become your guy and you'll make them fight the other guy. That's how the game of thrones the game of geopolitics has been played by the west for decades for centuries. It's cruel. It's heartless. It is what it is. That's how it goes. Two idiot NRIs says H chiefs are saying that they just MK2 rollout already happened. What does a non-public roll out even mean since it's not a taxi trial? I have no idea really. Um they just MK2 roll out really just MK2 roll out really has it happened? They just MK2 advances towards first flight as former D former D or something. Um what's it say? Former DRDO joint director confirms roll out in internal testing. So the MK2 program has quietly test crossed the Malaysian milestone. The aircraft's rollout already completed and internal trials are now in process progress. This confirmation has come from joint director at the DRDO who revealed the development while speaking to news one and so on and so forth. the focus is now shifted entirely to internal ground in system trials and so on. Um, okay. The Okay, maybe it's a good thing. Uh, non-public roll out. Maybe a rollout doesn't have to be public, I suppose. Um, it's okay if they do this behind closed doors. That's all right. I'm I am not opposed to that. Why does everything have to be public? When India developed nuclear weapons, did we make it public? Joint public roll out live telecast of the first nuclear test? No, it's not like that. It's it's fine. Um, if the rollout has already happened, that's fantastic. Um, that's all I can say about this. I am not opposed to a non-public uh roll out. I'm not opposed to that. I'm not sure is it it's not a taxi trial yet. So, when it's not public, you don't know exactly what's happened, but looks like there is progress and I'm that that pleases me. That's all I can say at this time. Humanity survives says how do you see the world in 2050? I see multiple scenarios. One scenario is US primacy. The US is the supreme superpower who rules everybody. Second is maybe you have US versus RAIC, Russia, India, China. That's a very unlikely scenario but that's one definitely nonzero probability scenario. Third scenario is maybe maybe multipolar world. US is no longer that powerful and China, India, Russia and maybe maybe France also are reasonably powerful. Maybe NATO has broken up. Lots of possibilities. The last thing I want to see is nuclear war or third world war or something. Um but the most likely scenario is that the US is going to be the most powerful nation in 2050. Most likely scenario is that. Uh Buddha says why is Indra dominant over Vishnu and the Rig Veeda? I don't have an answer. I I'm not not an expert in this matter. Sorry. Dir Kamat says why for the past 1,000 plus years we have Indians been behind in behind competitors in terms of strategic thinking, ambition and technology and being reactive not proactive. Is this a mentality or ideology issue? See look when you come under foreign occupation this is what happens. The simple answer to your question is that we were under foreign occupation. Starting from the northern part of India about 1,000 years ago slowly gradually descending southwards. Okay. For the longest time for from about 700 something AD all the way to about 1400s we fought we resisted but eventually we came under full foreign occupation and when you come under foreign occupation and when the foreigners disrupt your systems dismantle your civilization bring in foreign education, foreign bureaucracy, foreign foreign institutions, foreign language. They mess with your minds and after you become independent, your leaders continue to the same system of that the foreign occupants brought in, you're going to become a nation that is not the most ambitious, most equipped to succeed. So you become reactive, not proactive. You bring in things like a hinsa. You start woriing a hinsa. So what what do you expect? Do you accept expect a nation to be react proactive when it when it worships a hinsa? Right? When you don't teach the the truth about what happened in the past thousand years, even the past 250 years, what the British did, you don't teach them. You still portray the British as as as glorious social reformers for India who and all that. So, so what do you expect? It's not a mentality or ideology issue. It's a leadership issue. Actually, it's now a leadership issue. Chattania on Texas says recently Trump officially cons confirmed that the US has directed energy weapons which was used in Venezuela allegedly and that that they are scaling them eventually won't the same weapons end up in the hands of terrorists Pakistan well they'll end up in the hands of terrorists if the Americans give them to terrorists the Americans deal with various kinds of terrorists they have ISIS on their side you know uh Al Gulani the so-called president of Syria is an ISIS terrorist he is a US ally Uh Pakistan is a terrorist nation. The Americans are very favorable towards Pakistan right now and they've been so since the 1980s. So if the Americans hand over these weapons to terrorists, then they will end up in the hands of terrorists such as Pakistan. It's entirely the choice of the US. So yeah, any weapon that the US has if they want to give it to Pakistan, the Pakistanis will have it. Most likely the Pakistani nuclear deterrent is most likely American warheads. I don't think it's Pakistani warheads. Otherwise, how do you control Pakistan? So if the Americans give it to terrorists, the terrorists will have those. Dir Kamat says, "How then were Jews, a smaller group than Kurds, able to get their own homeland?" Unlike Kurds, do Kurds constitute a very major, powerful, prosperous, rich ethnic group in the US? The Kurds do not. Are Kurds all across the US government in positions of power? The Kurds are not. That's the answer to your question, sir. That's the answer to your question. The Jews, they ensured that they became wealthy and powerful and they occupied multiple positions of power throughout Europe and now in the US. Is there something wrong in doing that? No. They are really good at that. That's admirable. It's an admirable quality. The Indians haven't done that. The Kurds haven't done that. So that's where we are. Ankita G. Ankita says, "What's your opinion about Mr. Trump's inviting Prime Minister Modi to join the board of peace? How should India respond?" According to me to to me, according to me, India should neither accept nor deny no nor reject this proposal. India should ignore this proposal. This board of peace is a circus. If you see the the nations that have joined the board of peace, it's a bunch of nations who who are united by the common purpose of wanting to please Mr. Trump. Do you want do does India want to be in the same position as Pakistan? Pakistan is a honored member of the board of peace. Do you want to be in the in in the same board as Pakistan? Israel hasn't joined. Russia hasn't joined. China hasn't joined. No self-respecting nation has joined. And if India joins the board of peace and Mr. Trump convenes a summit meeting of the board of peace, then he will play he will pull some Trump some some stunt on Mr. Modi. He'll try and make Mr. Modi come and shake hands with Mr. Sharif. Does Mr. Modi want to be in the same room as Mr. Sharif? I don't think so. At this point in time, Mr. Modi should not even be in the same room as Mr. Trump because Mr. Trump is is prone to humiliating various world leaders and countries. My opinion is that India should stay far away from the so-called board of peace. That's my opinion. And that brings me to the end to the conclusion of this live stream. We have taken a lot of questions and I thank you all my dear friends my dear friends for these questions for all the questions. And so this brings me to the end of today's live stream. Thank you very much. I look forward to seeing you tomorrow. We're going to do a live stream all based on super chats tomorrow. Ask me anything you want. I'll take your questions there tomorrow. Until then, keep learning, keep qu asking questions, keep raising your standards. I'll see you tomorrow. Thank you everyone. Good night, good day. See you soon. See you tomorrow. Bye-bye.