[Music] Hey. [Music] Heat. Hey, Heat. [Music] Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome to the Ask a Budget show. Today we are in episode 239. So let's see who all is there on the live stream and then we will get into the questions. I'm going to take questions from the comments. Questions that you've asked in the comments. So let's see who all is there. I can see Kalyani Deshmok Krishna Govinda Alfred Rakunath Baloray Akash Ba British SK Tushar Kaluri Xmas Yimus Zeus Geopolitical Dubai from Indor Nishal Ray Manuk Krishna Oscar Madison Sunonny Loha Shri Ramchandra Namaha who else do we have let's see Sahil Das Gupta Akash Wamshi Khm Nutan Roshan Chitan Dish Pandean Prixan Sunonny loyia Utah Tajjis B Somi Jen Mateo Perez from Texas Rashil Ju 1813 Disha plays Rogue Gamer Rajumar rational thinker by Khalik so Anandpai Rohan Jangid Sahil Das Gupta Vidhi Mar with a military salute Aayush Solat Hitender Takur Mustafa Avin Mr. 88ers prane Paul from Kolkata Akash Ba who else do we have we have so many other people anonymous Pam Kumar Singh God was alive Samart Tripati JJ Hariana Xenomorph forces Arian Saha Prahar Gupta Daddy of Diddi's Dulu Dilip Kgoy Rogue Gamer Prexen Mahish Rishta Arian Abdul Porkar uh Anant Pai lost child deadly ninja Jagdish Mali Amisha Mishra Sonat, Roshil, Jesal, Ankita, Storyteller, Mr. 88 and so many other people. Okay, I'm going to end I'm going to stop that now and let's get into the questions. I've taken questions that you've asked in the comments. So, let's take some of let's let's get going with that. What's question one? Sort of says comment. He's saying that there's no point asking questions. You never take the questions. Look, uh, I'm sorry you feel that way. And I can understand the frustration when so many people ask questions, hundreds of questions every week. I'm going to only take a few, right? I have a 2hour roughly time period here, time slot in which I answer the questions. So I can take maybe 20 30 questions at the most. So how do you ensure? So first of all, for people who may be wondering, how do you ask questions for the Ask a Widget Show? you ask the questions in the comments in any video or on the on the community page and hopefully you use the hashtag askabjit so that I can search for that hashtag only and not look for the other random you know whatever other commentaries happening in the comment section so use the hashtag askabjit ask your question in the in the comments of any video and I'll be able to find it on my YouTube dashboard okay and then if you want me to take your questions if you want to have a higher chance of me taking your questions please ask the best possible questions that will help everybody that will help the wider audience. Okay, look I there's no right question, wrong question. There's no stupid question. I don't believe in all of that. But I have answered most of the easiest questions a long time ago. I started this uh show askit in what 2021 May June somewhere around that time and I have answered all the questions you can imagine. All the simple questions are have been answered multiple times and they're available on this channel or on the Abijah clips channel. All the individual uh clips of each question being answered. So if you want if you're wondering why I'm not taking it up, maybe I've answered it multiple times. So look it up. It's available. It's all it's all there on YouTube. Just uh search for my name, search for the hashtag askit and put your question in there. Most likely you'll find it. Right? So I've answer if you ask me once again what is when are we taking back P. I'm not taking that question. You got to ask good questions that will help everybody something new, something interesting, a new angle or something. And if you are a regular viewer of this show, you know what things interest me. History, geopolitics, science mainly. In science, it's more physics than other sciences. In history, it's world history. In geopolitics is about what's happening right now. Glo great power competition and so on. So that's that's the things you should focus on. So you know, don't get don't let don't get discouraged, but please ask the best possible questions. Right? Let's go to the next question. True Dollar says, "How can you possibly be anti-Marxist when the labor theory of value is the only empirically tested theory of value and dialectical materialism is a very logical lens of analysis? I can understand criticism of Marxist revolutions and their attempts of egalitarianism. Egalitarianism just like I understand criticism of the vast majority of capitalist societies. But it doesn't make sense to throw out such a sophisticated theory, especially now with econophysics actively proving the LTV. I often see people use use religion or culture as a space scapegoat rather than evaluating the facts. But I know you're more logical in your analysis. So what's the what's the truth? Is Marxist a ter Marxism a terrible theory? Look, Marxism Okay, let let me explain. First of all, let's let's talk about the theory of value. Then let's talk about uh dialectical materialism as a lens of analysis. So what is the Marxist theory of value? It is see KL Marx is regarded as as a political scientist. He is regarded as a philosopher and he's also regarded as an economist. Okay. So there is something called Marxist economics and that's that's a lens through which one can certainly study uh economics. So in within Marxist economics there is a core concept called the Marxist labor theory of labor theory of value let's call it that. So this proposes that the value of any commodity let's say you have a commodity let's say potatoes or let's say bricks or let's say 1 kilo of concrete or cement whatever the value whatever the commodity is let's take any hypothetical commodity it's this says this theory says that the value of a commodity is determined by the amount of socially necessary labor time required to produce it socially necessary labor time how much of that is required to produce a commodity let's say 1 kilo of one commodity that is the value of the commodity okay so the value is determined by the amount of socially necessary labor time required to produce that and this theory is then uh used to analyze the current global system um especially capitalism and Marxist economics arg argues it says that capitalists that the capitalist system it is an exploitative system. It exploits workers by stealing or appropriating the surplus value created by the labor of the workers. Okay, that's the deal. Now what is this socially necessary labor time? It is the average amount of labor time required to produce let's say 1 kilo of a commodity under normal conditions considering things like what is the level of technology and what is the average uh social productivity of a worker and so on. So that is socially necessary labor time. Then there is something called surplus value that I just said. So what is surplus value? Surplus value is the difference between the value of a commodity produced by a worker and the wages paid to the worker. So what's the value of the commodity? It's determined by the social by the amount of socially necessary labor time according to this theory Marxist labor theory of value. Okay. So that according to this theory is the actual value of the commodity. And the surplus value is the difference between the actual value and the wages that are paid to the worker. And let's say the value of a commodity is X and the worker is paid Y then the Y amount of Y money then X minus Y is the surplus and that is stolen by the cap by the capitalist according to KL Marx and that is exploitation. So according to Marxism, Marxist economics, capitalism inherently exploits workers by paying them less than the value they create and this leads to unending profits for the capitalists and unending exploitation of the workers. All right, sounds good. Sounds good. Now let's let's uh ask a couple of questions. H how do you genuinely determine the value of a commodity? Is it only going to be determined by labor time? How much labor was put into producing 1 kilo of ur of potatoes? Yeah. How do you determine the actual value? Some people like mangoes rather than potatoes. So, shouldn't they value mangoes more? Or some people like radishes or carrots more than potatoes. Will they not pay be willing to pay more for those radishes and carrots rather than potatoes? So isn't it true that value actual value is determined by these subjective preferences and how useful some a commodity is rather than the labor time. Let's say I go and dig 1 kilo of uranium and somebody else is create is saying using the same time to to produce 1 kilo of potatoes. Which one is more valuable? Are potatoes and uranium the same thing? Clearly not. So that's number one. Okay. Value is subjective. It's determined by subjective preferences of people and the utility of what's being produced, not by simply uh the amount of socially useful labor time. Right? And then how do you put a number or a value on nonproduced goods? How do you put a value on that? One hour of of music. Let's say I I do a concert, one hour of I play the guitar for 1 hour. What's the value of that? I mean, yeah, sure, I put one hour into that, but there are artists who will charge a million dollars for one hour and people will be willing to pay that. How does Marxism explain that? And how do you uh put a put put put how do you assign a value to services? How do you assign a value to intangible assets and all that? So there are issues with Marxism. It's not that good of a lens. Okay. Society is much more complex than that. Now now there's this other term over here. Then here here yeah here yeah here yeah here yeah here yeah here yeah here here a dialectical materialism. My god what a staggeringly intellectual term. The moment you hear terms like these proletariat and dialectical materialism and terms like that you you automatically imagine Marxism is this super hyper intellectual theory only can which can only be understood understood by people of IQ 150 plus right let's break this down dialectical materialism this is the philosophical foundation of Marxism let's break it down in reasonably simple language so to first of all let me let me give you a very concise explanation of dialectical materialism. According to this philosophical uh underpinning of Marxism or foundation of Marxism dialectical materialism according to this reality the world around us reality changes through material contradictions or rather economic contradictions and it is these contradictions that drive history forward. Okay, obviously that has gone above your head because it will go above anybody's head. So let's first let's break it down further. H material see reality changes through material which is economic contradictions and these contradictions drive history forward. That is the basis of Marxism dialectic materialism. Now what is materialism? H material contradictions. So that is something to do with materialism right? What is materialism? So materialism says that it is the physical world around us that is the foundation of reality. It is the physical world which is the foundation of reality not ideas not thoughts only the physical world is the foundation of reality. that kind of hearkens back to the Charvaka philosophy of within which is a subset of Hinduism, right? It's one of the philosophical schools of thought very little philosophy in that. But yeah, so that's materialism. The physical world is the foundation of reality. So, so the idea that I the the the cons the idea that ideas create the world marks disagrees with that and Markx says that human consciousness and everything that we experience etc is shaped by material conditions like the availability of food availability of shelter the kind of technology that's available to you and work okay so Mark says that these are the things that shape human consciousness and your thoughts and beliefs and your culture and your religion all that emerge from your relationship with the material world. Okay? And there is an element of truth to it. No doubt about it. Right? So he says that it is not the consciousness of humans. It is not ideas that determines the qual quality of their life and the experience of their being. Rather it is u rather their social conditions that their their social being. It is it is the conditions of the world they inhabit and the circumstances that they are living in which determines their consciousness, the quality of their consciousness. That's what marks. Okay. So if you were to put it in economic terms, it means that the economic structure of society creates an ideological structure which is which manifests itself in the in terms of laws and politics and religion and philosophy and so on. So Marx inverts everything. Okay, that's what it says. So there is a school of thought called so so there's a school of thought called great man theory which says that it is not these average conditions of the world that shape history. It is a few great men who shape history. But Marx is the opposite. He says that everything is based on the law of averages and the average conditions determine the the the overall uh quality of the of of existence of humans and everything emerges from your relationship to the material world. So that is materialism. Now what is dialectics? Dialectics is a method of understanding change through contradiction. It is borrow borrowed by from a philosopher called Hegel but it's twisted. Okay. So dialectic says that conflict drives change which is not a very big claim to make but it's about change understanding change through contradiction. Okay. So according to dialectics there is an existing state of things. Everything is normal. Right? This is called thesis. Thesis. For example in the old world you had something called feudalism. Federalism means that you had uh royalty- class aristocracy and then you had nobles who would hold the land for the for the king in exchange for military service and they would make the average average person the peasants work brutally for them in exchange nominally for military protection. That's feudalism. So but there was a time in the world when everything when when when Europe in in Europe there was a time in Europe when the whole society of Europe was a feudal society feudalism. So that was the existing state of things that was the thesis. Okay. So there is an existing state of things. It's called thesis. Then there is an internal contradiction or opposing force within this existing state of things. This is called the antithesis of that thesis. For example, in the time in the feudal times, there was the rise of the merchant class. This was an opposing force. So there is thesis, there is antithesis, and then there is synthesis, the outcome of conflict, a new stage which is capitalism, which came out of the conflict between the feudal feudal system and the merchant class. The rise of the merchant class, it gave rise to capitalism. Okay. So all the money was then concentrated not in the hands of the nobility in the in the aristocracy, the monarchy, but the merchant class. And cities became the big deal. Everybody started gravitating to cities. Okay. So the value was no longer tied in the land. It was tied in the goods that were produced by in urban centers and so on. So that was the outcome of conflict synthesis and this created capitalism. Okay. So um there's a key principle in dialectics that every system contains the seeds of its own destruction through internal contradictions. So you put materialism and and dialectics together we get dialectic materialism. So materialism says that economy is the basis of society. Dialectics says that change comes through contradictions within a system. So society according to dialectical materialism society changes when material contradictions like especially class struggles reach a breaken point. So there was a feudal system and there was a contradiction which of the rise of capitalism and it gave rise to capitalism. In capitalism we have the bourgeoisi the the people who own the means of production and we have the proletariat who actually produce stuff the workers and then there's the contradiction between these two opposing forces and that is the rise of socialism. Okay so that sort of thing and we know that all all systems are inherently unstable and you need some kind all that sort of thing. Um so so all of this so this entire thing is called dialectical materialism. Okay. Um so according to Marx in Marxist uh the Marxist worldview the reality is material. It's all material reality. There's nothing spiritual. There's no spiritual component to reality. There's no idealism in this. It's all materialism. History according to Marxism is a process driven by class struggle. Change happens because of dialectics. Contradictions within a system. And contradictions are essentially always between classes. And the classes can be classified very simply into the oppressors and the oppressed. And the end goal of socialism is a classless society, communism via socialism in which there are no longer any oppressors and the oppressed have a revolution and a dictatorship of the own. The dictatorship of the proletariat and Marx saw this dialectical materialism as a scientific method of history, a scientific method of inquiry of history. And uh it was not wishful thinking but it was kind of a predictive framework. And dialectical materialism is what the Chinese adopted during the era of Maoatong. And they shot people who who were teaching quantum mechanics because quantum mechanics is it goes against dialectical materialism that sort of thing. Okay. So all of this is what this gentleman $2 is saying. Labor theory of value. I show you I showed you the contradictions within labor theory of value. Dialectical materialism very logical. Look at the end of the day Marxism says that you know the material world gives rise to everything. There are no ideas. It's all it's the material world that creates it's which which gives rise to history. It is the average person who is the driving force of of change. Uh the society is always divided between into the oppressed and the oppressed. That's a very key point. Okay. And so on. So Markx believe Markx does not believe in what they call the the the that school of thought called the great man theory. Okay. So according to Mars it is Marx is class struggle that uh gives rise to historical change always and all actions can be explained through class struggle. So tell me why did Alexander the Greek try to invade India via Persia? Where was the class struggle in that? What operation did he face? H why did Julius Caesar uh conquer Gaul which is France and then Hispania and then eventually England the British Isles. What class struggle was there? Who was being oppressed? He was the oppressor, wasn't he? And so what explains that that historical shift? You simply can't explain history through the Marxist lens which seems to which claims to be a predictive framework of historical change. Okay. Um so Marxism is actually is essentially it it is um an ideology that you use to destroy societies. What you do is look in every society there's going to be there's going to be uh a division of labor. Any functioning society is divided according to division of labor. Logical. Any company, any corporation, any government, any military structure, any structure that functions properly is a has classes. It has a structure that a command and control structure and whatn not whatever you want to call it. It is divided into various organs. Now let's destroy the society. If you want to destroy the society, all you to say to the average person is that you are oppressed and that one person is the oppressor and then you incite them against uh you know depending on the nature of the society it may be easier to incite or or harder to incite. If you have a very poor education system, if you don't don't have any grounding in your your culture, the society become the pe average person becomes very easy to incite and and you know that sort of thing. So Marxism is essentially what the average mediocre person will regard as a very superior system. Okay, that's what it is. If you genuinely are intelligent, you will understand the internal contradictions within Marxism. But if you are super average, if you have an if you have an IQ of 80 or 90, you will believe that Marxism is the most intellectual and greatest theory ever built. And unfortunately the average person in the world has that sort of IQ 80 90 100 whatever it is in India what it is what is it I'm not sure what it is but yeah so it's very easy to to sway people by giving all these wonderful theories dialectical materialism the tatorship of the proletariat the evil bourgeois oppressor versus the oppressed and so on. Okay. So it it looks like a super intellectual brilliant way of analyzing society and a very logical lens of analysis and this the only empirically tested theory for everything and so on. Eh come on which is not quite the case. But you need to have the ability to think deeply and the ability of of abstract thought, deep abstract thought to be able to deconstruct this and to show that it's all BS. Right? All right. There we have it. I don't know why I del I delved deep into I don't know what is it. Socialism is it? Sorry, sociology, economics, whatever. It's a political science. It's kind of at the inter intersection of all this. All right. Rhdrajit Sarcar says, "Why do people like personalities who conquered vast amounts of land, won multiple wars, expanded their empires, borders, people don't give a lot of importance to those personalities who don't who did not do such things? Is it because of the violent nature of humans? We humans are an inherently violent species. We know that. And we tend to uh regard uh people who do these wonderful these gigantic things as great people. It's called great man theory that it is the actions of a few great men. Great as in great capacity for violence and stuff. Those are great men in in this theory. Excuse me. And according to the theory, it is the actions of a few great men who shape history. So if you look at history, history is what? A series of wars and conquests, territorial expansions, the rise and fall of empires. It's all violence. It's all warfare. All geopolitical change, all historical change occurs through some form of warfare, right? And in warfare you have these people, these violent people, people who are uh skilled in the use of violence. Not just skilled in the you know in like physically strong and all that but skilled in the apply application the the strategizing the planning of military campaigns and applying military violence in in specific ways. Military violence is nothing but the focused applic focused u uh application of energy. It's a focused expenditure of energy because whether it is muscle power, whether it is human beings wielding swords and spears, whether it is guns, whether it is bows and arrows, essentially this is all expenditure of energy. Whether it's uh you know chemical energy through the through the through ATP in our bodies whether it is horse energy horses have to eat something they eat grass once again it's chemical energy or whether it is explosives which is again stored chemical chemical energy missiles it's all application of energy so um all change historically large scale changes has happened through this and that's why we tend to regard the people who do these things who who change the the shape and state of the world from its equilibrium position and people who succeed in doing this we regard them as great. It's just the way it is. Yeah, it it is to some extent because we are an inherently violent species. Some cultures, some civilizations have prioritized uh nonviolence as as as the highest ideal and so on. But most look if you if you are a pragmatic person you'll realize that even a society that uh regards nonviolence as the as the as the best way of living even that society has to be prepared for violence because you know if you are too too nonviolent others can take advantage of you. It's just the way it is. So yes we are we are an inherently violent species and that's why was one of the reasons why we regard people like Julius Caesar, Alexander the Greek and so on as great people. Isabella says, "Do you think Marxist ideology is encroaching into India, especially through movies, education, influences to dismantle the family system uh values, etc. like it's been happening in the west for the past century. Look, it's not Marxism as such that that ideology that's encroaching in India. You don't see people waving flags with the face of KL Marx. You don't see people waving communist flags in India. No, it's it's more subtle than that. People don't even realize that it is Marxist uh the Marxist approach at what at work. See, Marxism is you can academics have been lying to you. Academics portray Marxism as a theory of economics as a as a theory in political science even as a philosophical theory. They portray Marxism as these things. I'll tell you what Marxism actually is. Marxism is a socopolitical toolkit. A toolkit is a box that you open and there are multiple tools in there, tools. Marxism is a socopolitical toolkit. And the objective of Marxism is to enable a very small number of people who genuinely understand Marxism to obtain and retain political power through any means necessary. That's the toolkit. The any means necessary is part of the toolkit. And the simplest tool and the most effective tool Marxism has is to classify any society arbitrarily as a society that has oppressors and oppressed. So all you have to do is to take a big subsection of society hopefully in you know in a in a nation that's rather poor and has a and has a garbage-like education system. It's very easy to to make to convince people to believe this that you are you have been oppressed for 10,000 years and these people are your oppressors. Go destroy them and then you start all kinds of you know uh create all kinds of fissures and fragment fragmentation within society and you divide society further and further and further. That's Marxism. Okay. So that is Marxism at work and you can use other religions in that. You can use any movement. You can co-opt it into your agenda. In in the west, Marxist academics, they co-opted feminism into their agenda. They hijacked feminism. Feminism came from a good place. There was a need for feminism in western society because of the way women were oppressed historically. But then it it would no longer end with women becoming equal. Now women had to become more equal. And today you have a situ situation in the United States in the western world where men are emasculated. Okay. It's it will end with women becoming men and men becoming women essentially and and so on. So Marxism Yeah. So it's all about dividing a country and that we have we are seeing it in India. It started long ago with the Arian invasion myth. The Arian invasion theory and the idea that you know India is so the Arian invasion theory says that Sanskrit and Hinduism are foreign to India. They were brought in by by arin invaders, oppressors who have been oppressing the natives for 5,000 years. So right away you can break a society in half and then let people fight on the basis. So then so then what you can say is that Hinduism is evil. Sanskrit is a foreign language and you have to throw throw this off and any north Indian language is a language descended from Sanskrit. So it's a language of oppressors. So you make people fight among each other. You start linguistic fights, you start territorial fights, you start race wars with we are just one race and so on. This is Marxism at work. Okay. Um and then you divide people on the basis of uh religion. Then you take one religion and break into 75 religions. Hinduism then becomes then you take Sikhism and and Buddhism and Janism out of Hinduism and then you make them fight if possible. Then you take whatever is left from Hindu of Hinduism and then you try to divide it further and then you start playing majority minority politics oppressor and oppressed politics everywhere but you give it different shapes and forms and different names and then you put this ideological framing in your education system and that's what we have been laboring under for the past 75 years no actually more than 100 years that's how you destroy a society and we are a great we are a great case study India and our political system knows I don't know how many of the people even understand this and those who understand this this are doing nothing. So there you have it. So that's the situation. That's how Marxism is being used in India against India's culture, civilization, society, all of that. All right. Okay. Lots of questions about Miss. Okay. Praneal and Ramalakshmi. First of all, thank you Ramalmi once again for all the incredible work you're doing. I don't know what I would do without you. help you give us give everybody um the luxury of finding each question individually. So Ram Lakshmi thank you so much for your help. I really appreciate that. Now the question is the questions these questions are about Trump. So Prane Paul says with Trump's new 90-day tariff pose for all countries except China is this not a glaring admission of economic incoherence? Why single out China so aggressively when American consumers from tech to even toilet paper are deeply dependent on Chinese supply chains? Is this a strategic trade car craft or short-term political theater at the cost of global economic stability? What's really going on with Trump's tariff drama? After all the dramatic escalation with 125 or 145% tariffs on China, Trump is suddenly pausing tariffs for 90 days on over 75 countries and lowering those with just 10% the baseline. Is this the art of the deal in action a strategic retreat or a sign of deep state pressure? Was China always the primary target or and now the real game in is global trade reset negotiations under US terms? What does a signal about America's real leverage or desperation in today's global trade arena? Trump uh Ram LMI says Trump announced tariffs and markets fell by a lot and then pose it on notice. Don't you think this is um really market manipulation in its finest? There was a tweet about Trump posing tariffs way before it was announced. Okay, a lot's happening. A lot lot lot lot is happening clearly. So, okay, first of all, um 90-day tariff pause. Why did he pause the tariffs? Right? So, right now, I I believe uh the the tariff uh percentage on China is 145%. And this is an application of maximum economic pressure. This is bordering on outright economic warfare. Okay? And there's a number of reasons what number of aims for this. Um so first you apply tariffs on everybody. You you announce reciprocal tariffs on everybody. You and you put out a list of what nation is what tariff you're applying on what nation what percentage right and China gets a huge tariff. I mean what tariff rate 125%. Initially it was 125%. Okay. So what happens then? That's what was done initially. tariffs were applied on all nations except for Russia because Russia is already sanctioned. So there's no point. Now what most nations did is they reached out to the US that hey uh there's no need for this. Let's sit down, let's talk, let us understand your viewpoint, let you understand my viewpoint. Let's try and find a reasonable solution that is good for both sides. There's no need to fight. So most nations had that response to the US. I'm sure our response India was the same, right? How did China respond to the tariffs? They applied 84% tariffs back of the US. Then Trump says, White House says that China has been disrespectful to us. Other nations, they said we want to negotiate, we want, we want to have talks and we want to find a proper solution. So to all those nations we are pausing the tariffs for 90 days 3 months so that we have time to talk it out and and find a solution individually bilaterally with each nation 90 days to do that. So only the 10% baseline tariff will remain on all nations but no extra tariffs for anybody else but on China because you guys fought back and put 84% on us now instead of 125% it's going to be 145%. And then China has hit back once again and so on. So essentially this was about isolating and pressuring China. The real target was always China. And you could say uh that this is economic incoherence or whatever. But I would say maybe it's a planned strategy. Okay. And yeah, you could say that perhaps uh there was big push back in the US because when you put tariffs on all nations, uh whatever you're importing from across the world becomes shockingly expensive and that can go give rise to inflation and it can destroy American companies who depend on these imports and so on. So then you what you do if if that you get the reaction from your domestic domestic voter base then you pause the tariffs for all countries except China. So you can look at it from different perspectives for sure right is this market manipulation I think you know if the American voter perceives this as market manipulation Trump is Trump is in big trouble so I don't think it is that I don't think it's about manipulating markets for personal gain. It's not that it's about China. It's a it's it's a geopolitical move. It's a move that is aimed specifically at China. Is this desperation? Look, there is obviously an element of leverage. You know, the ability to impose such incredibly disruptive tariffs. It demonstrates the incredibly huge weight, let's say, of the US economy. It demonstrates the US economy's capacity to influence global trade flows and and forcing responses across the world, forcing negotiations across the world. Okay. And the fact that the Americans are are have decided to pause this for 90 days, that itself is an exercise in leverage. We are giving you temporary relief contingent on explicit or implicit future cooperation. Okay. Is there some desperation? Um maybe to some extent there is desperation. This this essentially this nuclear option that they have chosen against China. It could suggest that prior strategies that they employed against China less aggressive strategies have now been deemed as insufficient. Okay. And obviously the the the fact that they've paused the tariffs on most countries that shows that even for the US there are huge economic costs and political costs and this entire u what you could call a maximalist approach against the whole world is unsustainable politically, economically etc. Okay, because this could lead to for the US to a tremendous amount of self- sustained economic damage. So uh yeah, the pause makes sense. the pose that they've used it definitely makes sense. Now uh PR talks about the art of the deal. Is this the art of the deal at work? So the art of the deal is a book by Trump. It's an interesting book to read. I would suggest you read it. You know it's it's more about negotiation than his style of negotiating his style of dealing with people and so on. So that's a framework that Trump uses the art of the deal framework. So one of the tactics in this framework is you create an extreme opening position which is this universal set of or set of reciprocal tariffs. You create an extreme opening position and then you offer concessions the pause you offer these concessions so that you can frame your position favorably to frame your negotiations favorably. So you're maintaining maximum pressure on the real target which is which is China and then you are giving a pause to everybody else. So this is called coercion. You're applying pain while you're also suggesting a path for the to give them relief on my terms. That sort of thing. That's the art of the deal. That's the framework. Yeah, for sure. Now um yeah, the US is dependent on China on so many things. Look, if you have a fortress, if you if you have a fortress and that fortress is dependent on on goods coming from enemies, then that that fortress is in deep trouble. So, you know, doesn't make a lot of lot of pressure to doesn't make a lot of sense to keep importing stuff from China from the US perspective. So, uh why China? Okay, why why isolate China and why pressurize China? There there are justifications for this. Look, first of all, there is a gigantic trade deficit. We in India talk about the trade deficit with China, don't we? Uh $90 billion or 120. I don't know what the number is. But we have a big trade deficit with China, which works in China's advantage. Obviously, it works China's advantage. When it comes to US China trade, there is a persistent gigantic trade deficit. I think it is about $1.2 trillion in goods. Imagine every year the US is giving $1.2 trillion to China as a as the trade deficit. My god, does it make sense to continue trade with that country? H doesn't make sense. That's one. Then uh the Americans have been accusing China for a very long time of of intellectual property threat. Widespread intellectual property threat threat. I started hearing this for the first time in the early 2000s, 2003 or something. Operation Titan Rain, you know, large scale hacking. They stole blueprints of of of the F-22 and whatnot, you know, F-35 which was in its infancy at the at the time and all kinds of US military equipment. Uh so intellectual property theft and the Chinese have this these uh um rules for forced technology transfers. So when an American company is is uh uh setting up shop in China or whether if they're having things manufactured in China, you have forced technology transfers obviously it will disadvantage the United States. Okay. Uh the Chinese give subsidies to their companies. They make it very easy for the companies to operate in China unlike in India. In in India it's the opposite but whatever. Okay. um and the Chinese don't give reciprocal access to Chinese markets to the Americans for American goods and services. So from that perspective, it makes sense for the Americans to cut off all trade with China. Then there is a national security perspective. You know there is there there is this growing perception in the United States that over reliance on China for critical goods is is very dangerous whether it is pharmacological pharmaceutical ingredients whether it is rare earth minerals uh whether it is semiconductors technological components this is a huge national security vulnerability you know if you buy chips from China or you buy some whatever It may have back doors, you know, look up what a backdoor is. And some of this became visible during the coid9 pandemic and we had supply chain disruptions and so on. So um the Americans want to reshore okay reshore vital industries back to the US make in America and they want to reduce their dependency on their rival for essential materials and sensitive critical technologies because like I said a fortress that is supplied by its enemy it holds the seeds for its own surrender in the future and then there is geopolitics okay because China is the only large scale challenger messenger to the US and uh it controls uh it China seeks to reshape international norms. It seeks to assert its dominance in places like the Indo-Pacific region. It wants to uh become a technological superpower and and leaprog the US in AI in 5G, 6G and so on. So if you put economic pressure on the nation, you're going to constrain the nation's resources and slow its its its technological progress, its military modernization and so on. So you want to strategically isolate Beijing and prevent it from forming coalitions to counter American pressure. So you offer different terms to different to to different people. You squeeze China maximally, but you offer a 90-day pause to everybody else. So you're going to fragment the opposition and maximize American leverage in dealings with China and so on. So you know that's that's the big picture that we are looking at. So right now we are in the beginnings of the of the new cold war. This is cold war clearly. Okay. This is war by other means. This is economic warfare and uh during the cold war of the 20th century you had economic warfare. So here we are now. The world is changing very very rapidly. Okay. geopolitical dubet says is the United States using the same tactics to um deal with China just the way they handled Japan in 1985 absolutely not very very different tactics in the case of Japan and the case of China is completely different see Japan is a nation that is in under complete American control it's a nation under military occupation permanent military occupation ever since 1945 when the Japanese surrendered at the end of of the Second World War. Japan is under permanent US military occupation. More than 130 US military bases, permanent bases on Japanese soil. And those American soldiers aren't going anywhere. And every major decision taken by the Japanese government in the realms of international relations, foreign policy or economic policy, any of those major decisions have to be green lit by the US. there's a committee of American generals who have to give give the green light after consulting with their bosses back in Washington not with the Pentagon Pentagon or wherever. So in 19 in the 1980s there were the Plaza Accords that tweaked the interest rates and whatever else in the Bank of Japan and that was the the the the onset of the great Japanese downfall the downfall of the Japanese economy and it it was a disaster in very slow motion and its effects are now very clear. Japan is is now threatening to become a middle-income nation from a super high income nation. Uh so they destroyed the Japanese economy in a real slow motion. You could only see small changes over 5 10 years, 5 10 years. But now it's become very apparent what was done. So the Americans had complete control of Japan. In in the 1980s, Japan was the world's second largest economy and it was threatening to become even larger in economy than the US by the 1990s. Imagine that's how that's what Japan was back in the day and they completely destroyed it. Um the Americans don't have any such control over the Chinese economy. The Americans don't have military uh occupation of China. They don't control the Chinese uh banks. They don't don't control the Chinese government. They control absolutely nothing about China. And that's why they have launched now allout economic war against China the past few weeks past week or so essentially. That's that's the real uh that's where the real change happens. Nothing like Japan. It's it's a completely different story when it comes to Japan and China. Dwight Eisenhower says you're the only one in the entire mainstream media. Well, I am not mainstream media. If you regard YouTube as mainstream media, well, I'm first of all, I don't see myself as a media person and I definitely am not mainstream. Mainstream is those all those TV debates, 8:00 p.m., 9:00 p.m. debates. That's mainstream media. Uh anyhow, okay. So I was the only one who was telling everyone that the Taliban is an American masal. And now it's crystal clear. I hope it's clear. I hope it's sufficiently clear to everyone. I was saying it like 2 three years ago when it was not fashionable to to make make such statements. But those statements have come true. Yeah, they have been vindicated. So the Taliban is a US uh asset so to say. Uh now it's it appears there are reports in the mainstream media uh that the CIA director is going to visit the Bagram air base and that the Taliban apparently has handed over the Bram air base to the Americans and let me point this out my friends that the Americans have denied this and even the Taliban has denied this. Who was it that said? I think it was uh it was the iron chancellor Otoon Bismar who said never believe anything until it's been officially denied. Anyhow, so both sides have denied this. The Americans have denied it. The Taliban has also denied this that that the Americans are taking back control of Bagram. But hypothetically in a hypothetical situation where they are taking over control again. Okay. Okay, in that hypothetical situation, what what why would they do that? Why would the US want to take back control of the Bram air base? Is it a pressure tactic against Iran? Is it aimed at China? Does it have something to do with Pakistan? And how should India react to this? All right. So, finally, I can break out the map. Okay, we have gone 51 minutes without seeing the map. So, let's see the map. Where's the map? Here's the map on the screen and we're going to look at Bagram. Here we are. So in case you don't know, Bagram is in Afghanistan, Gandhar and it is somewhere near Kabul, I think north of Kabul some. Oh yeah, no, here we are with Bram. So this is the town of Bram. And if we go to the satellite view, we can see the air base. Here's the air base. It has, I think, two runways. It's a pretty good air base. Very useful. And let's just check the length of the air air base just to make sure we have a good understanding. 3.14 km is essentially you can land any aircraft no matter how big it is on this air brace. And it used to be controlled by the Soviets during the Soviet occupation of of Afghanistan. Um there's this old Soviet air traffic tower over here. There's a former base of the Soviet army there. Then the Americans controlled this base for about roughly two decades and then they handed it over to the Taliban. So now that we understand where Bagram is in relation to Kabul as you can see it's about I don't know 50 70 km or so from Kabul. 45 km from Kabell roughly give or take. Now let's see its location in the larger neighborhood. For example, if I take the distance from Bram to Shinagar, it's about 500 km. Uh what about Bram to let's say the border? Let's say to to Mashad over here 870 km. Uh the distance from Bram to the Iran border is about 730 km. And the distance from Bram to let's say Tibet um over here it's about 550 600 kilometers. Okay, we we we we get the point. And if we're talking about Russia, Russia is too far away. But uh Central Asia is not far from Afghanistan. Just north of Afghanistan, you have Tajakistan, Usbekistan, Turkmanistan, all these Central Asian nations. Um and Central Asia historically has been uh a Russian a part of the Russian sphere of influence. So now so the question is uh why would the US want to take control of Bram back from the Taliban? One factor could be Iran. Look right now Iran the Americans consider it as one of their prime adversaries. Uh they are worried about the Iranian nuclear program. Um Iran obviously as we know is u a nation that is a prime adversary of Israel. There there have been missile strikes and counter strikes and air strikes between the two last year. Um and the Israel is obviously are very worried about Iranian capa capabilities. Iran has a strategic deal with China. Iran is an ally so to say of Russia. There is military cooperation between Iran and Russia and the nuclear capabilities potential nuclear capabilities are a very worrisome thing from the western or US perspective. So uh if you have an air base in in in Bram, if you have control of it, if you can fly aircraft from there, it gives you power projection capabilities that can definitely encompass the whole of Iran and also worry China. So one target could be Iran. Okay, you can keep an eye on what's happening in Iran. If you can fly Awax or other aircraft um over Afghanistan which you can uh have them based in Bagram and you can also strike at Iran if you need to in that hypothetical situation from BRAM that's one so that's a Bram that's the Iran angle is there a Russia angle look Russia is far away the Kakistan Usbakistan Tajakistan Kyrgystan region Turkmanistan region all of that is part of the Russian sphere of influence but Russia is right now occupied with uh in in in Ukraine very much and it has other priorities. I don't think Russia is creating any trouble from the American perspective in this region. So I would be skeptical if somebody were to claim that the Bagram air base if the Americans are taking it back it's uh there to counter Russia probably not Russia. Now let's look eastwards. Uh we have uh Pakistan we have India obviously and we have China. China is not very far about 550 kilometers away. uh that you know the Shinjang region east Turkiststan ch or shinjang region of China now there's a trade war going on that that's just been unleashed by President Trump against China and u the Chinese have long seen Afghanistan as a as a as a uh strategic area through which they could have the belt and road initiative uh infrastructure built the Chinese are also are investing in in some industries in Afghanistan whether it is copper whether it's lithium or something various minerals and and so on that Chinese are interested in that. Um and the Chinese border is not very far away less less than 600 km away. So yeah, you could keep an eye on China and and keep an eye on everything that's happening in the Tibet and Shinjang region. If you could fly an aircraft Awax or whatever aircraft about 10,000 15 20,000 kilome 20,000 mters above above Afghanistan, that's another possibility. Um Pakistan is not that big of a an issue for the Americans. Um they've always had this weird relationship with Pakistan friend as well as enemy at the same time. Uh but Pakistan is not that important and I would I would not imagine they would take Bram just to keep an eye on Pakistan. Does it have anything to do with India? No. India is not really an enemy of the US. We are kind of quasi friendly with the US actually in in a variety of ways. So they don't need to have Bram to keep an eye on India. There's a lot of other ways they can do it if they want to and India is quite open with the US. So no no such issue. Um how should India react to this? If the Americans take back Bram, India should stay out of it. We stayed out of it when the Americans occupied Afghanistan for 20 years and Afghanistan is is no longer, you know, part of India. Long time gone. So India should say it's a foreign country. It's something that's happening elsewhere and we we stay out of it. that that should be India's reaction to this. So if this is actually happening, I would say it is most likely a a China related thing more than Russia or Iran or Pakistan. Okay. Um let us one second. What's the next question? Here it is. Okay. Uh Samana Satish says one of the conspirators of the Mumbai terror attacks uh Tahav Rana he has been extradited back to India or extradited to India. Is this a diplomatic win and what significance does it hold? If it's a diplomatic win, why are we not able to extradite other terrorists like Dawud Ibrahim and whoever else? Mr. 88 says the Havana has been extradited to India. Can you please tell us about the 2611 attacks? I was too young to understand the situation back then. Why did that happen and why was there no retaliation even though we were already a nuclear power and also Trey tell us about uh some journalist okay I don't discuss people I don't discuss journalist but I can discuss the other matters okay uh okay Tahav Rana is a person who was associated with the attack in some way um so he's been extradited to India by the Americans u is it a diplomatic win and what significance does it hold I don't see it as a diplomatic I see it as a face saver for the government of India. To be very frank, the person we want, the terrorist we want is David Coleman Headley who uh is the mastermind of the attack. He knows every single person in Mumbai in India who was involved in the conspiracy, who was involved in the planning, who was involved in the aiding and abetting of the terrorists and what not. He knows all those traitors within India. He knows exactly you know who was involved. He also knows the extent of let's say potential American hypothetical American involvement if there is any in this. And he's in a prison in the US. He's the guy we want. And we have an expedition treaty with the Americans but the Americans aren't sending him back to India. Okay. Daud Gillani. His name is Daud Gillani. David Coleman Hadley. Hadley is the name he took to fool Indians. And he looked I think his father his his mother was American, a white lady. So he looked kind of European and he was able to fool Indians with his fake uh Christian sounding name, his kind of whitish skin and his American accent. So that's the guy we want. Tahavur Rana is is a low ranking minion in the grand grand scheme of things. Um he's a pawn on the chess board. So it's not a very big win. I don't know what good it'll do to us. It's it's a crumb the Americans have thrown at us. Okay. It's kind of a face saver. Uh not not not any great significance. But yeah, the media will do their runaround and rigma and mergoround. Uh there going to be 8:00 p.m. 9:00 p.m. debates for the next two weeks about this and so on. Hamjit go we have done a great thing no not the case the guy we want is is headed we would also like people like panoon what's that gur patan singh panoon who keeps on threatening uh to destroy Indian airliners etc that sort of those are the people we should have extradited to India anyhow so that's answering satish's question why are we not able to extradite other terrorists like dawa I Daudah Brahim is sitting in Pakistan. Pakistan is an enemy of India. Unfortunately, it is um and we don't have an extradition treaty with Pakistan and he's one of their key assets. Why would they extra extra extradite Daw Ibrahim to us? They won't. Okay. Now, um what can I say about the 2611 attacks? Uh happened in Mumbai. I was in Mumbai at the time. The whole city shut down. Uh it started in the night sometime. I don't know 10 11:00 in the night and there were reports on TV news channels that there was a gangster shootout in in Kaba or something. I'm like what gangster shootout in Kaba? I think it was about 9:30 or 10:00 or around that time post 9:00 p.m. I think if I recall correctly okay some of my what I'm telling you may not be exactly accurate because it's been so long but uh it started with that sort of news. There's been a shootout in Colaba. A shootout at what Leopold cafe opposite the Colaba police station right across the road like 10 m away. And so apparently there was a shootout there. And then the terrorists went to the Taj hotel which is not far from the Leopold area. It's uh the Gateway of India region. And then the terrorists go inside and take over the hotel. and another bunch of terrorists go to the uh Trident Hotel which is at what Nariman Point I believe which is a I could put the map on the screen if you like. Um do we have of course we have map let's put the map on the screen and look at Mumbai. So here we have India. We go southwards to Mumbai and we are looking at this region. So um okay so we're talking about Colaba here. Okay this is going to be interesting. So it starts um one second. Let's put the satellites image on the screen. Okay. The gateway of India is here. That's my reference point. So you have Leopold Cafe over here. That's where the shootout begins. Okay. It's right opposite a police station. That's where it begins. And then the terrorists, they go by a back road into the Taj Palace Hotel. And then they take over the hotel. Excuse me. Then a bunch of them also go to uh Nariman Point Trident Hotel and I think it was this hotel if I'm not mistaken and they take over this hotel as well and then there's a whole carnage that happens there and the whole situation goes on for 2 three days and the whole city shuts down. Um they they attack a hospital. I forget the name of the hospital. And uh there's a there's a bomb blast in a taxi somewhere because the terrorists had traveled by the taxi and they left a bomb inside that killed the taxi driver and the taxi and so on. The terrorists came from Pakistan by boat. Uh they hijacked an Indian boat, killed the captain of the boat of that ship, small boat, ship, whatever fishing fishing boat. They came all the way to Mumbai. Um they swam ashore perhaps or perhaps not. Maybe they were helped by some locals. I don't know. All the reconnaissance had been done by David Headley. So these terrorists knew exactly where to go. There was a shootout at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj station, railway station. A whole bunch of people died there and so on. They a bunch of them took over the Kabad house in in Kalaba and there was carnage there and the Indian administration was caught completely offg guard completely unawares the NSG commanders did not come to Mumbai there was a huge delay for for some incomprehensible reason and eventually after two or three days or whatever it was after disastrous carnage I don't know the official figure is 166 people dead including Americans and foreigners most of them were Indians of course and eventually uh the terrorists were all neutralized except for one who was captured alive because of a police officer named Tukaram Omblay great hero who he took the bullets and died but he ensured that Ajamal Kasab was captured alive. The terrorists were all wearing Hindu uh religious uh items. Their objective was to die so that it looked like it was a Hindu terrorist attack but because of Mr. Tukaraml one terrorist was caught alive and then it emerged that they were all Pakistanis the guy was Ajal Kasab and this thing ends the terrorist attack ends eventually after two or three days the prime minister of India does not open his mouth for the for six or seven days he doesn't make any statement and uh we do nothing we should have flattened Pakistan we should have flattened Pakistan and apparently the British intelligence was was watching this unfold live they had intelligence they had they had signals electronic signals coming in they were watching this live as it happened so what was the role of the British intelligence in this as well is the question so yeah lots of questions are still unanswered uh the perpetrators the masterminds are in Pakistan uh some of them will or will may or may not be killed by unknown men but uh Pakistan has never been made to pay for this and let's see someday hopefully if India has any fortitude of some kind we should uh ensure that there's justice for the people who died with the people who died still haven't received justice Mr. 88s says Xiinping removed his army general supposedly the second strongest man in China, second most powerful man in the PLA in the people's liberation army. Is Xiinping feeling the heat in this tariff wars and maybe fearing a potential coup in the future? So um yeah there is there is this uh uh Chinese general the second most powerful general in uh the the Chinese army the PLA who was uh sacked apparently and um so I think his name was Wayong or something. Let's let's let's look it up. Okay. Uh let's look it up. Let's go to our friend Google and let's look for uh here we have dark mode. Wow. Wow. That's pretty Heong. So this gentleman has been removed in Xinping's latest purge. Um yes. So that's what we hear. China's President Xiinping removes second top army leader Kweong's possible downfall and Xi Shi Xinping's trust deficit and so on. So, so yeah, it seems to be true this this news report seems to be true that the that this Chinese general, the second most powerful person in the People's Liberation Army has been reportedly removed. So if it is true, if it's confirmed, it seems to be this is a high level military purge. They call this sort of thing a purge. And what could it signify? What could it represent? It perhaps represents a consolidation of she's control of Mr. Xiinping's control over the military. Right now there are all kinds of external tensions. There's a massive trade war that's going on with the US. The Chinese are pressuring Taiwan like never before. Military exercises all across Taiwan. Taiwan is encircled and so on. So uh maybe Xinping is is consolidating his control over the military by removing anybody who could potentially be a problem problem of any kind. Okay. So what could this uh signify? Okay. Okay. Kashi Ping is is consolidating power. But why did he need to do this? Was there any internal disscent in the in in the people liber people's liberation army or is there a preparation in China for a new strategic direction uh requiring absolute loyalty in the command structure of the army and was this person perceived as as as a weak link in this? We're not quite sure. We don't know. But uh it definitely is interesting. Now it's interesting to note that the Chinese are doing this purge of of their military. But what about the US? What about NATO? So once again, let's go to Google because we should have a balanced approach uh in looking at things if you know. So let's look at Google. Okay, our friend Google and let's look at Shana Chatfield. Shushara Chatfield, USA Pentagon fires senior officer, Vice Admiral Shushara Chatfield, a senior Navy female officer at at NATO uh fired by Trump administration fired in expanding national security purge. So there is the same kind of thing happening in the in the west as well. The Chinese are purging their military. You are seeing NATO being purged of certain kinds of people as you can see it's happening there as well. So um and this this person Shana Chatfield is the ninth senior officer who has been purged by the Trump administration. So there is a purge going on. There's a systematic removal of various senior military leaders. Uh why is this happening? Some of them seem to be associated with diversity initiatives. So we seem to be uh witnessing a fundamental restructuring of the military command in a way that is now more aligned with the vision of uh President Donald Trump. Okay. So we may be witnessing fundamental shifts in NATO policy. NATO policy is driven by the US. Okay. So out of those nine people who have been removed, high ranking people, four have been female officers. So maybe this is an ideological thing more than a per performance-based thing. Um or maybe it's also performance based. We don't quite know. But we are seeing something in China. We are seeing something even bigger in the west in NATO in the US. Okay. Yeah. Purges on both sides. Times are changing. Things are changing. Things are a foot. Okay. Okay. Pranne Paul says with India revoking the trans shshipment facility that allowed Bangladesh Bangladesh to export to third countries via Indian land and air routes. Is this a sharp geopolitical signal to Dhaka and by extension Beijing following Muhammad Ununus's uh provocative remarks in China? Is India drawing a strategic red line by leveraging logistics as a geopolitical tool especially? I mean it's all that stuff. Yeah. Okay. Uh look uh when you extend a privilege to a nation, when you extend a facility to a nation like trans shship shipment, what is trans shshipment? It means that the Bangladeshi government, the nation can use Indian ports and Indian airports to ship their goods to other third countries. So we gave that facility to Bangladesh. Now when did we give this facility to Bangladesh? when you had a friendly government in Dhaka pro- India or at least friendly to India the Shikh Khazina government so India Bangladesh ties were very good at the time okay so that's when we gave this trans shshipment facility to uh Bangladesh now we have had a coup in Bangladesh last year she kasina was ousted she was removed by the military and a very strongly anti-India fellow called uh what's her name Muhammad Yunus is now the chief adviser to the government or whatever it is. It's a dictatorship. It's a military dictatorship and Muhammadus has been put in place to make it look like it's a good thing because he's a Nobel Peace Prize winner. That's a facade they have created. Muhammad Inus is a very strongly anti-India fellow and uh so look first of all this is a coup that was done by the US. I made a video about it nine months before it happened and I said the US is planning a coup in Bangladesh and it happened exactly as I had predicted. So it's a US uh it was a US regime change operation which means that Dhaka is now a US wasal. So you have on both sides of India east and west you have east Pakistan and west Pakistan. Bangladesh has been reverted to its east Pakistan state. It's an anti-Indian nation now. And then Muhammad Ninus goes to China and over there he gives a speech saying that we will isolate India's far east northeast it's a landlocked region and Bangladesh will control the seas and China should invest in Bangladesh because India is being squeezed and that sort of thing that sort of statement he made and then Muhammad Yunus goes to um the BIMC conference in in in Bangkok he meets with Prime Minister Modi and two days later we do this so look this is a privilege we had extended to a friendly country. Now that the country is no longer friendly, it's it's adversal to us. We have switched off the privilege. It's not leverage. It's just uh our our um it's this this that's our prerogative to whether to give somebody this facility or not, right? Um so we have switched it off. Obviously, it's a signal that uh if you are anti-India, you will not get privileges from India. Um, is this a signal to Beijing? I think it's more of a signal to the US because the Muhammad, you know, regime is not a pro Beijing regime. It's not a regime that's supported by by Beijing. It's a pro- US regime that's supported by the US. But yeah, indirectly some signal may also have gone to China, which is fine. Okay. Okay. Prane Paul says, "If big tech secretly funded was secretly funded by DARPA in the US government, does it mean Silicon Valley has always been a geopolitical tool rather than a free market success? How does this compared to China's statebacked tech model? What are the global implications? Okay, look, some big tech companies were funded by DARPA. DARPA is a US government organization that at any given point in time has about 150 employees. They have a larger budget. They have twice the budget of India's DRDO. They have only 150 employees at any given point in time and they don't have any office. Who are the employees of DARPA? They are typically not really employees but people who are being funded by DARPA and the funds are significant. So what DARPA does is that it looks around the country in the US the entire uh university system especially in the STEM fields scientific fields it is all based on research and research and development research it's researchbased if you are a professor in a scientific discipline in the US your main job is to do research secondary you teach research is extremely important in India it's the other way around you don't do any teaching you don't do any research you just waste your time on average. Not not all but not all but on average. Yeah, that's what you see. So uh so there's a tremendous amount of incredibly high quality research, scientific research being done in various departments, university departments all across the country. So DARPA looks around who's doing what? Who's doing what? When they find something interesting, they'll say, "Hey, here's a bucketload of cash. Now you are being funded by us. You take your time. We're going to ask you how long will it take to uh see some results? One year, two years. Just the contract is usually one or two years. Okay, you want two years. Okay, here's a gazillion dollars for 2 years. Go and do your research. And then whether the research produces any results or not, that person is funded for that time. If they get results, fantastic. If they don't get results, part of the deal. So that's what they do. They empower researchers, DARPA. and they have come up with the most incredible technologies. Stealth technology came from DARPA. I think the internet came from DARPA. All kinds of in all the cuttingedge advances in science and technology in R&D have come from DARPA. And there are things that have come from DARPA that we we still don't know about and they will not be revealed for another 50 or 100 years. That's what DARPA does. Similarly, if there are some tech, there are some tech startups. You know, somebody is starting a technology company from their garage. A college student drops out to start a company from their garage because they have a great idea and they know how to make it work, but they need funding. DARPA may fund them and they may end up becoming Microsoft or Google or something. Okay, that's what DARPA does. It finds the best people with the best ideas and with the right skills and it empowers them. That's how the nation progresses. So all of Silicon Valley hasn't been cert secretly funded from DA by DARPA. But yes, apparently it would mean that DARPA has midwifed the rise of many of the great Silicon Valley uh corporations. Silicon Valley look any technological um any any any place that gives the nation technological breakthroughs is a geopolitical tool. it some of the success may be because of free markets. Some of it may maybe because the states state had funded it which is as it should should be uh I would not say that we should be upset that the Americans did that. I would be say that we should be upset we our government doesn't do these things. Okay. So yes DARPA has may have been behind some of the success of some of the Silicon Valley giants. probably they were the high likelihood they were but it doesn't mean that all of Silicon Valley success is because of DARPA. It's also an incredibly free place. It's a if you are in in San Jose, if you are in Silicon Valley, you if you have the right ideas and if you have the right skills, you will get funded. And it's a place where all kinds of incredible technology technological breakthroughs uh are routinely done. Why don't we have a place like that with that culture? We don't have it. Right. Sadly, Bangalore was supposed to be the Silicon Valley of India. It's that's not true. Uh it's it's the cyber capital of India. I sad to say I'm not trying to be to be disparaging but you know it's just a reality. Um so that's that's the deal with DARPA. How does this compare with China? The Chinese also have the Chinese idolized the US. the Chinese have tried to emulate the US at every possible step and yeah a lot of the Chinese you know the way they fund their uh their tech companies and so on it's it's a it's very similar to how the US does it so yeah it's actually quite similar the Chinese have sought to emulate you know to study the US understand how they do things and then try and copy it first and then try and do it better later so yeah global implications well forget about that but you see the global implications Okay, Rodri Sarkcar says, "Do you agree that the US and its satellite states are now supporting India's claim to the UN Security Council permanent seat because they know China will eventually veto the idea and India won't get the permanent seat anyway?" Look, look, I don't understand why we are so hungry for this permanent seat. Indians chase status, others chase actual achievements. What is the point of getting that godamned UN Security Council permanent seat? It's a status symbol. Forget about this. Forget forget about that thing become so powerful that that the UN security council becomes irrelevant. That's what Indians won't do. We want status status. We want talk talk talk talk talk talk and yeah it comes with some benefits but to hell with those benefits. Now the US and its satellite states keep on saying that we support us India's claim and blah blah blah. You know it's called lip service. Words versus actions. Like I keep saying, words don't mean a thing and they know that even if they support, the Chinese won't support. So, so forget about this goddamn thing. I get so tired of this entire this talk every day. When are we getting the UN Security Council permanency? When are we getting P? When are we getting a chin? Whatever is in your control, use that. Work on that. Whatever be in in someone else's control, we'll we'll think of that later, right? Hersha warrior says, "What do you think of the Vagaha border ceremony? Looks like a weird celebration. Do you think we should stop this nonsense?" We should stop this nonsense. It's a waste of time. So, it's like we are treating Pakistan as an equal. We're giving them so much space and doing that weird strutting ceremony and staring at each other's face and eyes and doing this and that and all that. It is incredibly childish, incredibly stupid, incredibly immature. Do we really think that we we are equals with with Pakistan? Pakistan deserve to be to stand to look eye to eye with us. Really, why are we going down to that level? It is stupid. It is silly. It makes us the world's laughing stock. We should stop that stupid border ceremony. Rodrikar says, "Why is Sununzu so widely popular but Chanaka is not? Is it because of the positive promotion of the Chinese culture in world media and people taking more interest in it? Um, look, Sununzu, yeah, he's more famous than Chanaka because the West for the long longest time was a big fan of China. Why was the the West a big fan of China? Because the Chinese had opened up their market to the West. They had they agreed to manufacture all of the West's cheap goods in China. And China was behaving like a like a nation that has decided to bow down to the west and and ally itself with the west. And the west thought that eventually we'll make China democratic and we'll completely transform them. So because China was cooperating and so on and the west was was aiding and abating the slow rise of China. The west thought that okay we should give China some privileges like we give to every defeated nation. For example, a lot of Japanese culture is popularized the worldwide because of American promotion like manga and whatnot. Yeah, all that Japanese anime, when it comes to anime, when it comes to South Korea, they have popularized K-pop, which no one understands a word of, but K-pop is somehow popular. I just don't get why. It's because the Americans have extended their privilege to the Koreans because they are a vasal state. They are an occupied state and occupied states, defeated defeated nations get some privileges. Okay. India has refused to be a defeated nation. I know there are so many problems problems in India. So much that's wrong in India. But we are not a defeated nation. The west only glorifies defeated cultures. They destroyed the Scandinavian culture of the Vikings. Today they glorify it. They make movies about it. Thor. Okay. They have destroyed Samoan culture, defeated it. They've Christianized them all. Now they make movies like Moana and so on. What else? Yeah. Mulan Chinese again right Japanese culture there was this movie called multiverse of misery multiverse of madness whatever I happened to unfortunately watch the movie I think there is this scene in which there's this big big uh uh meeting and gathering of all the gods in which Thor and Zeus come face to face how can Thor and Zeus come face to face a Greek god and a Scandinavian god who are the same god yeah idiotic yeah again they will glorify Greek gods Because Greek has been defeated. That culture has been destroyed. So in that movie, there's this great meeting of all the gods. You had gods from obscure religions but not a single Indian god because India is not a defeated culture. So you get it right. Similarly, the west has promoted Sunzu and they have completely uh tried to marginalize Chanaka. But I would say that Chanaka is superior. Okay? Because if you read Sununzu's little book, The Art of War, you'll find it's not a book of strategy or tactics, it's it's not a book that will aid you to um to to construct a a successful military campaign or construct a successful quasi military campaign like a World Cup victory or something. It's not a book of that. Sunsu's book is a book of strata gems. very clever sounding ideas. It's not a book of strategy. It's a book of strategems. What's the difference between a strategy and a strategm? So, a strategy is a comprehensive overarching plan or a set of plans to achieve a long-term goal. A long-term goal. It's a road map on how to achieve your desired outcome. considering various factors in various potential scenarios. That's a strategy. On the other hand, a strategem which which Sunzu's book is full of, it is a small very specific often clever or deceptive tactic or scheme used to achieve a particular small short-term goal often as part of a bigger strategy. Okay. So in a strategy you typically will surprise an opponent or you will outmaneuver an opponent. So a strategy is a big picture plan like deciding how to win the next world cup. It has so many moving parts, so many components. A strategy as opposed to a strategy is a specific move or tactic within the plan. Okay. how to defeat this goalkeeper of this country from this direction. Okay, so strategy is like building a bridge and strategy is like using a clever construction technique to speed up one component of the build bridge building process. That's the difference. Chanaki's book is a book of strategy. It's a book of straight craft. It's a book of how to administer a gigantic subcontinent-sized empire. Sununzu's book is a book of strategy. Clever little tactics. Huge difference. But the west has promoted Sunzu and they have sought to marginalize Janaka. There you have it. Uh geopolitical dub says except the sun god Surya is there any ancient rigidic deity temple except those that are ruin ruins. What he's asking is do we does anybody still actively worship any rigid deities in India? I haven't heard of any temple dedicated to Lord Indra. That's an interesting question. Uh let me look up Rigdic Rigidic deities and let's put that on Zcreen. Okay, Google. We do Google. Yes, Rigic deities. And of course, it's going to be Wikipedia. So okay let's look at Wikipedia. Always remember Wikipedia is not necessarily a good source of knowledge. It has it can be very biased especially when it comes to Indian culture and history but we're just looking at it to make things fast. So Rigidic deities uh deities were prominence. You have Indra nobody worships Indra in India today. Uh Bangkok is called Indra Puri but I'm not sure whether there's any temple to to Lord Indra in Bangkok. In India today nobody worships Indra. Agni. Yeah we worship Agni. uh Agni is part of our prayers and homeras uh Yagnas etc. But there is no temple dedicated to Agni. But Yagni is Agni is still somehow present in all all major you know Hindu rituals indirectly but nobody nobody directly prays to Agni. S is the moon. I don't think anybody prays s anymore. Ashbins okay they pray to they use the Ashbins uh to to decorate houses in Lithuania today but not in India. Vuna uh no one pray prays to Vun today. No one prays with the maruts. Mitra nobody ushers vay savvetra pushan arhaspati surya we do have sun temples till ahro and pritimata the original god and goddess of the most primordial Hinduism I suspect it began with the with the worship of the skyfather and the earth mother. I think that was that is the those are the oldest deities in Hinduism and today no one even even remembers the pitu. You will still find small bhortis of pritu mata in some temples. Okay. But you will not find any depiction of the pitru anywhere. No one even remembers him. But he is the father of all the gods. Apas adita's vishnu. Well no one really worships Vishnu anymore. Brihaspati. No rudra. Okay. Well, rdra we do we do still worship. We still do worship rdra. We call him shiva now mostly. But yeah and yama. Well I don't think anybody who worships yama. All people would say is please Yama G stay away from us as long as possible. Saraswati. Yeah we still do pray to Saraswati. The goddess of wisdom. The river association is almost gone today forgotten and so on. And there are minor deities like Ratri, Aditi and so on. So yeah, if you twashtar the father of Vitra, wasn't he? If I'm not mistaken. And where is Danu? Danu is not even mentioned here. The great river goddess, the mother of the Danavas. Um, and so on. Mitra Vun. So if you look at Mitra, he was once, look, this statue is from Tajakistan. You may not know but the ancient border between India and central Asia was in Tajjakistan even during the time of Shri Changistan 800 years ago. And this is a statue of of uh Mitra from Tajakistan and yeah Mitra is a component of the Mitra Vun de twin deities and uh so on post Vic texts etc. So yeah, you know, we no longer worship uh Indians no longer worship most of the rigidic uh gods. Most of these are forgotten. Imagine how India would have been, how the subcontinent would have been during the rigidic time when the riga was being composed several thousand years ago. It would have been a completely different society. They would have worshiped gods. Nobody worships today. They would have spoken Vic Sanskrit, rig Vdic, the oldest Vic Sanskrit. Their lifestyle would have been completely different from what you what you would imagine. The the food they ate would have been different. India itself would have been a whole different place, completely pastoral place. no uh uh urban centers, people living um you know pastoral rural life and so on. The past like they say is a foreign country and today's people try to retrop project today's values and lifestyles upon our ancestors 5 6 7 8,000 years ago. Let's be a little more mature and not do that. Right? You just saw the list a small representation of the of the gods that were worshiped during the Vic times the rigidic time. Nobody most people won't even know the name of the gods. Today you think of Indra as some some loser kind of guy who lives in a palace and who has absurd dancing in front of him. The Indra from the riga was the greatest warrior you can imagine. He defeated the great serpent ai a vitra. You see the depiction of Thor that's Indra Thor is based on Indra the god of the thunderbolt and the which is the vajra and the hammer hammer is also vajgerra that's Jupiter that's Zeus and that's Thor great warrior god the greatest warrior of all that was Indra and today they've turned him into the god of rain was thunder so see you can see how incredibly ancient our society, our culture is and how much has changed. Of all those gods, only RDRA is worshiped today. But we no longer call him RDRA. We call him Shiva and so on. Yeah. Okay. Um Mr. 88 says, "The dire wolf is now resurrected after 10,000 years. When are we going to revive Cambium?" Let me guess. Camarium would have been some ancient extinct Indian animal. Let's let's Google it. Yeah. So, can there be any adverse effects in reviving extinct animals in our current ecosystem? Let's go to Google and and and and search for these beasts, the dire wolf and uh cambeium. So, yeah, we know the dire wolf is an extinct 10,000 year old wolf and it's been allegedly resurrected uh two puppies. So the deextinction of the direwolf they're talking about. So they have uh they have revived this this species allegedly. Two uh twin puppies have been born who look like nice little doggies but they will grow up to be large wolves. And the wolf is obviously part of the dog species but it's the wild wild version. So the dire wolf was historically it used to live in I think North America I believe and it was a much larger uh in size than the regular wolf that we are aware of. Even the regular wolf is kind of bigger than your your standard issue dog and the direwolf was larger than most wolves. So what they did was they okay I have not read the story but let me tell you what I think they've done. They would have recovered a probably a frozen specimen of a direwolf or some portion some tissue of a direwolf that would have been that would have been frozen in the perafrost. So they get the tissue it's reasonably undamaged the tissue and you can extract DNA out of it. Now the halflife of DNA is about 500 years which means if you have a sample of DNA in 500 years half of it will be destroyed. The bonds will break. So only half of it is left. Then another 500 years half of that half left is gone and so on. So every 500 years you have half half half half half. But yeah 10,000 years if it isn't in in perafrost it may survive reasonably undamaged. So they were able to they were able to apparently extract the DNA from that sample of the direwolf tissue and then you can inject it using cloning techniques or whatever into u into a regular wolf today and that female wolf will give birth to uh puppies that apparently are direwolf puppies. So it's essentially a genetically modified modern wolf and who has been given uh direwolf genetics. That's what it is. So it's not quite the direwolf, but it's the closest thing we can have today and it's going to probably have most of the features that the direwolf used to have. So that's direwolf. That's how they did it. Now let's look for cambeium. Let me guess it must be some extinct Indian animal. Let's see. Camarium. Okay. Looks like some form of I don't know whatever it is. Let me go to Google. Uh let's quickly look at the Wikipedia thing. Extinct genus of placental mammals in the family whatever whose fossils were found in an open pit coal mine located in Gujarat India. Okay. So it's an extinct Indian animal. When was it alive? The fossils were dated to the early EU scene 54.5 million years ago. Okay. How large was this thing? Uh it would have weighed about 23 kg and the smaller one was about 10 kg. So it's a medium-sized beast. Not very large. 23 kg is not small obviously and so on. Um so that was cambeium and it was discovered in Gujarat in western India and this is kind of what it what at least looked like and it lived about 54 55 million years let's say 55 million years okay we have the information we need now think about it friends um the halflife of DNA is 500 years 500 54 4 million years is 54 with six zeros after it. Do you think DNA can survive that long even in the best conditions? I would be very skeptical. I don't think it can. Uh once again, let's go and ask our friend Google uh oldest recovered DNA ever. Okay, let's quickly ask Google what is the oldest DNA that anybody has recovered. Oldest recovered DNA. Recovered, discovered, whatever. Okay. Approximately 2 million years. Wow, that's amazing. Found in sediments in Greenland. It was extracted from frozen soil. Okay. Okay. So, we don't quite know what DNA it is, but they discovered some DNA. And the oldest DNA sequence from physical specimens are from mammoth mers in Siberia. 1 million years old. Well, well, well. Okay. So, up to a million or 2 million, it's possible years in age. 55 million years. That's almost dinosaur era. The dinosaurs were wiped out 66 million years ago. Not far away from 55. So I think Cambreum is going to be a gigantic impossibility. Excuse me. Why? Because the remains that are available are fossilized. The bones have been replaced by rock sediments. Can you can you find soft tissue in there that survived 55 million years? Is it possible to recover the soft tissue which may contain perhaps some DNA? For that you have to break all the fossils and and look within the bone cavities you know within the bones you have bone marrow etc and so on. So you would have to first of all go and break all the fossils and see if there's any soft tissue left which is almost an impossibility but not quite impossible because I do remember reading this 10 15 years ago that somebody was transporting a Tyrannosaurus Rex sample a femur thigh bone and somehow the workers messed up and the the the the specimen which was being transported by crane it fell the thigh bone broke and inside they found soft tissue wet tissue And when the tissue was examined, they found things that look like blood cells. T-Rex lived a 100 I don't know how many years ago. Tyrannosaurus Rex. How old is it? T-Rex. Uh, how old? Uh, when did T-Rex live? Okay. Yeah, it died. It died out 66 million years ago with the extinction of the non-avian dinosaurs. So, it's possible. But the probability the probability is extremely low. Uh but if they do discover let's say uh cambeium DNA then they could try and do something with that. Is there could there be adverse effects? Well, not really as such. Uh the animal that you bring back let's say you bring back the woolly mammoth. I mean where will it live? That's the question. It will be adverse for the new new new specimens that you are generating because it will not have the environment. It it it evolved to live in the woolly mammoth went extinct about 10,000 or so years ago because of the end of the ice age and because of human hunting. It was it was an animal that could only thrive in extreme cold. Today we don't have it. Where will it live and so on? Uh the adverse effects will happen if you revive ancient viruses or bacteria. That's what we don't want. So Priam Shirinasan says, "What are your thoughts on Hotmail co-founder Samir Bhya's recent statement regarding Indian engineers?" He said that 99% of Indian engineers lack hands-on skills and mainly aspire for managerial positions. Do you think he is giving unnecessary yan or a reality check? He's absolutely correct. And this is not meant to be a criticism of the engineers. This is meant to be a criticism of a criticism of India's rotten education system. You understand? Most Indian engineers, how do you get a degree? You get a degree by memorizing and mugging up texts and writing exams. You all you learn is how to pass exams and clear exams with high marks. That's all you learn. You don't really learn the skills needed to be an engineer. Engineering skills are hands-on skills. You have to do things. You have to make, break, and modify things. That's engineering. But in engineering degrees today, what do you learn? Memory. Memorize. Memorize. Memorize. Pass exams. Pass exams. Some field work, some lab work. But it's it doesn't really give you the skills. The only way you get skills is by doing things over and over and over again. That's the only thing you do. That's the only way you learn skills. The education system is garbage. It's rotten in India. And Sabir Bya obviously is naturally frustrated because he's an Indian. And what he sees engineers coming from India who don't know what they're doing, right? So it's not a criticism of the individuals, it's a criticism of the system. And he's absolutely 100% correct. It's a criticism of the education system. The corrupt rotten education system that doesn't give India what India would expect from an education system. Uh I have spoken at length about education in episode between 28 and 33 somewhere around that time, three episodes. So you can check it out over there. But I completely agree with Sabiata and in instead of getting angry angry with him try and understand what he is saying. That's what what I would say to most people. Some people have become upset. Some people are angry that he said such things. He is absolutely right. Okay. Caphile says um why did Sauté always make films that glamorized poverty? Was it to cater to with the western audience as they always liked seeing films that depicted India as a disastrously poor nation like Slum Dog Millionaire and so on? I have no idea what old boy is so I haven't seen it. Um Satyajitra I never liked watching Satyad movies extremely depressing movies. I know this is going to be a very controversial thing to say and I'll get a lot of hate especially from some parts of India fine I don't I don't care all as a kid sometimes you know on dur dan they used to play those sachad movies what pair panchali and whatn not abject misery was what was showed in the movies I'm sure there must be some good angle about the human condition and something but the movies showed India as a nation of abject poverty and complete brutal misery. That's all it showed. I could not stand watching those movies. Opur Shan Shar Pair Panchchali. I don't know what these things mean. I don't want to know. I couldn't I just couldn't I I am not that kind of person. I don't like misery. I don't like sadness. Yeah, there is misery and sadness in the world. But as an artist, you want to make the world a better place. Okay. Sure. Uh you can also represent the country. I mean represent what's what's happening in the world. But I saw that he only focused on these things. As an artist, you should have a 360°ree perspective. Okay, there's bad stuff in the world. Let's draw the world's attention to that. Sure. Okay, this is this bad stuff happening and people are somehow surviving. But you also show some optimism, some positivity, something nice. Create something of beauty. There are people in this country in India who think that there is beauty in misery. There is beauty in decay. There is beauty in decrepitude. He was one of those people. And the fact is that if he had shown India as a wonderful country, if he had shown the beauty of India, which India is is full of, then he would have never got that Oscar in on his deathbed, right? He was given a nice little pat on the head when he was dying. When they gave him an Oscar and some lady wearing a sari announced it. I am no fan of Satra. Let this be controversial. Let me get hate. I don't care. Facts are facts. Guy was obsessed with misery and poverty. I don't care how good or or director he may or may not have been. I just don't care. Didn't like his work. Ro Rhodit Tarkar says why don't we get any portraits hand handdrawn pictures or any statues of our ancient Indian kings like many ancient Chinese and European kings our magnificent temples leave no room for doubt that ancient India had some super talented artists and engineers no question about it why don't we get this because everything was destroyed because when the Turks took over they sought to destroy everything that was made in the image of man they were their religion is against the against uh depiction of living being depictions of human beings I think whatever so they want to destroy all mortis all statues all idols and especially when you want to destroy a nation and its culture you cannot allow statues of great kings paintings of great kings queens goddesses whoever to gods goddesses to remain you destroy it all to show how much stronger you are than the people who you are subjugating. See, I have destroyed all your statues. What will you do about it? That's a thing. So, we don't have any of it. Everything is gone. Um, one of the most common things is India is full of statues of the Buddha. And if you look at statues of Buddha, most of them are headless. So, for example, Buddha statue statue uh let's go for Afghanistan. Ah, Afghanistan. I mean, we know what they did to the Taliban to to the Bameyian Buddhas. Look at all these statues. Beautiful statues from Mass Inac etc. Oh, this one has a head. But yeah, you find so many headless statues of Buddha. Let's look at Kaneshka. Ganeshka statue. Okay. What do we find? We find headless statues. I don't think this is Kaneshka. Kaneshka did not look like this because I know what he looked like from his coins. Kaneshka was a big bearded guy and this is not a bearded guy. So this is not Kesan. This is Kaneshka. You see this? That's our man Kaneshka. So this was a statue of Kaneshka. I think they found it in Matura or somewhere. They took his head off the invaders and so on. This is a statue from Gandhar. And you have a Taliban like like person standing next to this. So you can see that they're wearing similar dresses uh and so on. You see surotal whatever. So the invaders uh deliberately destroyed all the statues and that's why we don't have it. And if there were any paintings that would have been destroyed or burned. So the only statues of kings or paintings of kings are from the last I don't know 200 or so years that we have. The ancient ones are all gone. Cuckoo finished. Um, geopolitical duba says, "Do you think Nepal can become a monarchy again in the near future?" Nepal was a monarchy. It was the last Hindu nation on the world and the monarchy was destroyed by external forces. Let's not discuss who what that external force was. Let's not do that. So, if Nepal is to become a monarchy again in the near future or whenever, it may only happen if an external force makes this happen. Um, I know that the people are sick and tired of the of the allegedly corrupt politicians or allegedly incompetent politicians in Nepal. I'm sure the public is sick and tired of that. And I'm sure the public most the majority of the public I I believe I get the sense the majority of the population of Nepal wants to the nation to revert to being a monarchy. That's the sense I'm getting from whatever I'm hearing and seeing. Some may be opposed to it, but I don't care. The majority is what matters in a democracy, right? But the people, politicians in power, do you think they care about the majority? What they want? They care about remaining in power. And they won't allow this to happen. Um, and they own the means of violence. In Marxism, we have the means of production. In political theory, we have the means of violence. The politicians control the means of violence. So, the public can't do a thing. Um, so I don't think monarchy will return unless there is external intervention. Now from where would an external intervention for the restoration of a Hindu monarchy come? I wonder that's the question. Okay. Again says what says can you tell us something about the Kir Rouge and the Polep? Why did that person massacre so many of his people? So this happened in Cambodia. Let's go to the map because we're discussing uh places. We go to map. So let's put the map of the world on the screen and we are talking about Cambodia. Cambouesh. So let me show you where it is. We know where India is. Let's go eastwards. This time we go eastwards. We cross the far east of India. We enter Myanmar. We go south. we go south of Thailand and here we have this country wonderful country of Cambodia which was destroyed by the Kir Rouge. Okay. Uh so this is where it happened first of all. Now let's go off the map and and it was eventually I think Paul took over in 1975 and Vietnam liberated the country in 1979. Vietnam, a communist nation, liberated Cambodia from brutal rouge communist terrorists. Okay, very very very strange story. So, you know, in the 1980s, I was a kid in Switzerland and uh as a boy, you often go to the barber to have a haircut. And in the 1980s in Europe, they would have book they would have magazines in the barber shop because you have to wait for your turn. Somebody else is getting a haircut, you have to wait half an hour, maybe sometimes, maybe 15 minutes. So there are magazines kept over there for people to kill time and those magazines are not for kids. I assure you of that. Okay. I discovered it once. So that day I went to the barber shop and I had about 15 20 minutes to wait. So I picked up a magazine and it was a news week or something like that. It was about news. Open the magazine and my goodness I see these horrific images. It's the mid80s. Okay. I see these extraordinarily horrific images of some nation in Asia and there are it's a rural nation and on both sides of the little country roads you have ditches that are dug and they are filled with rotting human bodies. As a kid you should not have to see such things but people experienced that people lived through this and I saw these images and I was horrified and then I read a bit and it's Cambodia and I saw the term k rouge there and the images discard me I was what like eight I don't know I was a kid less than 10 years less than 10 years old for sure my god those images are so so now let me tell you what the and the person who did that carnage just fields filled with Dead bodies rotting under the sun. Oh my god, those images still. Okay, so the person who did this was Pulpot. He was uh Cambodian. He studied in France. In France, he became infected with uh communist ideas, Marxist ideas. He was studying in some uh technical school, engineering or something. He was studying some sort some form of engineering and he got exposure to communist ideas. He became a communist. He comes back to Cambodia. Uh he and the the nation of Cambodia was a monarchy. It was run the king was um Narotam Sihanuk. Normuk which is Narotam Sihanuk. And he had been overthrown in a coup. So Narotam Sihanuk was in exile. So this guy Paul Pot starts a guerilla insurgency and this fellow the king Narotam Sihanuk joins hands with the Kir Rouge which is the organization that Paul Pot becomes the head of and they try to take back power in Cambodia by overthrowing the guy who did the coup and then eventually there's this long civil war and eventually uh the CL Rouge this Mauist organization headed by Paul Po it takes takes over the country. They enter the capital city, Fnen. They order everybody to evacuate the city. It's a big city. It's a metropolitan city. Maybe a million plus population perhaps. I don't remember exactly. Big city. They order everyone to evacuate the city. Everybody is out of the city. Everybody goes to the fields. So there are people, there are doctors doing surgeries, they are thrown out. If you wear glasses, you are an enemy of the state. If you are educated, if you know how to read and write, you're an enemy of the state and um they they they displace the entire population of all the cities and towns and villages of the country. They put them all in the fields of the country. They give them manual labor to do and then they start hunting down people who are class enemies. Class enemies. We discussed Marxism in the beginning of the show, didn't we? Oppressors versus oppressed. Anyone who could read, who could write, anyone who wore glasses, anybody who had a watch was the enemy. And they would be murdered in the most horrific ways. They would be taken to swall, what is the name of the prison in Swampen? They call it the Hanoi Hilton or something. No, that was different. That was different. Um, TW slang prison or something. I forget the exact name. In which they would process every person, take photographs, men, women, children. And look, I will not even describe the brutalities of what they did. Uh the nation had a population of about 7 or so million at the time. From 79 to from 1975 to 79, the population came down by according to various reports between 1 million to 5 million decrease of population which means they killed between 1 to 5 million people in just four years through and the brutality was incredible. Ah uh that that's Paul Pot. Why did he massacre people? Because he wanted to be in power. He wanted to first come to power then he wanted to retain power. And he do that by brutalizing and terrorizing the people. And he believed in Marxism. He was an ardent believer in Marxism Paul. So he implemented his version of Marxism. He was a Mauist essentially. Um so that's what communism do. Since we are discussing this this individual uh let me put his it it makes sense to put a face to to the name right so this is Paul Pot this is what the person looks like as you can there where is it here we have it that was his face that's Paul Poth and this is a small sample of what he ended up doing. Okay. Uh Cambodia is okay. And and the king was Narotam. Narotam Sihanuk. This guy who died in 2012 or something. He's he his reputation is forever tainted by his association with the Kir Rouge and Pulpot. and he had lots of children uh including prince Narotamarid uh who never became king and princess Dvi who was a who was a dancer classical dancer and so on. Anyhow I will not go into the into the details but you get the point. Paulpot is one of the great monsters of human history who killed I don't know how many of his own people. Absolute monster. Okay, let's take some more a few more questions and then then I then we'll do I'll take questions from the live chat. Vidy man says can you educate about fasting? It's is it true that 96 hours of fasting creates good changes in our body? If if yes, please explain. Look, um this entire um this entire thing that we have of eating three meals a day, it's nonsense. Okay? This this uh c this tradition of eating three meals a day plus snacks plus whatnot was created by by by the by industrial by commercial pressures to sell more fast food, more junk food and all that. As as a species homo sapiens, we have evolved with a fast or feast approach to life. And our bodies are not accustomed to to be able to process three meals a day, four meals a day. Historically, we were hunter gatherers for the longest period, hundreds of thousands of years. It's just in the past 10,000 years that we have become an agricultural and sedentary species. It's it's only in the past 70 years that we have become, you know, even more sedentary. That's a eyeblink of time in the evolutionary time scale. So our bodies aren't adapted for that. Our bodies are adapted to eating sparingly. Our body the our bodies are are adapted they're designed to be runners. We are designed to be runners, not walkers, not sitters, runners. Our ancestors ran all day and our ancestors would eat like two or three meals in a week perhaps at the best of times. When you eat you feast then you starve then you then you fast. So fasting because of these because of these reasons because of these evolutionary reasons fasting is good for health and uh you know research and medical studies have shown that if you fast for 4 days which is 96 hours uh it you you it has the effect of completely regenerating your immune system. So all of your immune cells are regenerated and you get a completely brand new immune system if you fast for 96 hours 4 days. I think most people would have a heart attack at the idea of fasting for 4 days, not eating food for 4 days, it's nothing whatsoever. If you are a healthy person with no actual underlying health conditions, it's no big deal to fast for 4 days. Just drink water. You will have absolutely no ill effects. You'll actually end up with a new immune system. That's what medical science has shown us. Now there is something called extended fasting which is fasting more than 4 days just water zero calories. What that does it does multiple things. First of all the longer you fast the more autophagy your body uh uh under goes autophagy autophagy means once you start fasting the body starts recycling itself. At any given point in time in your body, you'll have uh dying cells, damaged cells, diseased cells, maybe precancerous cells. Okay, these cells are not good for your health. Now, if you start fasting for an extended period of time, 2 days, 3 days, 4 days or more, then the body starts doing housekeeping internally. So it starts identifying the cells and destroying them and then taking the components and building new cells out of that. So if you fast for let's say a week you will undergo significant autophagy and a lot of all these dead dying diseased precancerous cells if any will be destroyed. And if you fast even longer the the better is going to be the effect. It's going to detoxify your whole body. It will clean your liver and your kidneys and whatnot. um it will throw your body into ketosis which is it will burn ketones, it will burn fat instead of of of of glycogen instead of glucose for energy which gives you a whole different u feeling and so on. So yeah extended fasting is um not for everybody I assure you of that but 3 4 days anybody can do it and I am experienced with extended fasting. I've done it a few times. My longest fast was 23 days. Only water, zero calories. And my second longest fast was 21 days. Again, zero calories, just water. Um, so yeah, it can be done. It's not easy. It's it's rather brutal, but it has its health benefits. But I assure you, it's not for everybody. Okay, with that, let's take some questions from the live chat. From the live chat, Shri Raandra Anama says, "What's what are your views on Austria? I regard it as a country that exists. I don't have any specific views about it. It's not geopolitically very significant. It's part of the EU which means it is part which means it is not a sovereign nation and it has an interesting history part of the AustroHungarian Empire. Vienna is the capital and so on. And of course um there is an interesting person who associated with Austria. Some would call him the painter. So yeah, that's what I'll say. Okay, some more questions. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Um, Pratam says, "When will we see an Indian UFC champ? How many years?" I'm sure there's somebody out there. If you train him or her well now, they could become a UFC champ. Um, what we should look, we should have all sports in India. UFC is a brutal sport. It's a it's sport of fighting. It's not for everybody. But there are people who need that. There are people who with the violent that that violent streak in them that needs to be tamed and disciplined. And you can only do it by putting them in the in the fighting arena so that they can channel that in the right direction and such people will bring India great glory in in the sporting field. So if we make these this this sport widespread in India, we'll have the UFC champ tomorrow. It all depends on the resources we give to the people. But there's no question that we have all the genetics, all the stuff we need to become champions. All right. um moving charge with a magnetic field says how much information does the Indian government hide from its citizens? Well, if I knew then I would be part of the Indian government but I'm not so I don't know but it makes sense for any government to hide some things from the public for national security reasons or whatever reasons. So I'm going to I'm pretty sure there are some things that are kept secret that are classified as top secret above top secret whatever else class various classifications every nation has these things and it's there for a reason. Uh how much is there I'm not sure but yeah there is going to be a wheel of secrecy over certain things and it needs to be there. Okay. Aayush Singh says, "Is China lying about its 5% economic growth as its prop as its property sector which is 30% of GDP has collapsed?" Well, look, am I the right person to ask this? Because I can only give you the right answer if I have the actual data, facts, statistics, and figures in front of me. But I don't, right? I'm not in the Chinese government. I'm not at the level of Xiinping who knows everything that's happening in China. So, I can only guess and then I can only speculate. So I don't know. That's the answer. Look, I don't know. If if somebody claims they know what's happening, they're lying to you. Please understand this. This data, these facts and figures are only available at the highest echelons of the Chinese government, Chinese Communist Party. Some people claim that the property sector has collapsed and whatnot. How do you know that? There are issues with the property sector. Um because of societal social reasons more than anything else. See it's very property is quite cheap in China. Everybody has one child. Okay? Everybody has one child. Property is super cheap. So everybody buys let's say a flat. Everybody buys a flat. So you have one child. Let's say you have a boy and you have bought a flat. Now you say that I have extra money and my boy is getting is growing up. So when he gets married I want him to have his own flat. So you buy another flat. So now you have two flats. Now let's say there's another family who have a daughter. They they also have good money, decent money. They have a flat. The girl is growing up. They think okay let's buy a flat for her so that when she gets married she will have a flat. Now she has a flat. The boy has a flat. They get married. There's an extra flat somewhere right? So there's so many flats like this that are lying empty. It's because property is cheap in China and people can afford things. The purchasing power of of the Chinese uh yuan is quite a bit. Food is super cheap in China. Lots of stuff is super cheap. So we have to look at it from a Chinese lens, not from a from an outsers's lens if you want to do justice to your analysis, if you want to be fair in your assessment. So I think there are nuances in everything. I think uh there is a tendency especially in the west to demonize China. There is also a tendency in India to look at China from a perspect perspective of suspicion and enmity. And for that the Chinese are responsible. Okay. But if you really want to understand the world you have to look at it from a proper perspective. And I think it's more than what it's made out to be. Mr. 88 says, "Have you watched any Gibli movies? I'm sure you would like them even though they're animation movies." I haven't watched any Gibli movies. Uh, is is The Grave of the Fireflies a Giblly movie? I was about to watch it, but I didn't find the time. I hear it's a very sad, tragic story, but a very highly rated movie. So, I haven't seen them. I've seen still images, Gibli art, beautiful art. Um, you know, I I am not opposed to animation movies. As a kid, I as a kid that's all I wanted to watch, cartoons. I still don't mind watching good animation. So, yeah, absolutely. Um, all right. Okay. Um, let's uh let's see some more questions if I can find something interesting. Um um um my views on this person, my views on that person. I have no views on people that don't matter. For me, the kind of people that matter are at the prime minister level, the Elon Musk level, the Julius Caesar and Shingish Khan level. I will not comment about some comedian. I will not comment about some YouTuber. I am a YouTuber. Yeah. So that's why I believe I am not worthy of being commented about. I'm not that important. So please understand you have to really matter in the world only then people should discuss you uh okay let's um okay Kalpana says what does Kalpana say I have a theory that the El Dorado city of gold must be our own Lanka after all it was also a city of gold in Atlantis could be dwara what can you comment about this El Dorado is this reputed city made of gold in the Americas, El Dorado, city of gold. Now, Kalpana has the theory that this must be our own Lanka because Lanka was called Suni Lanka, city of gold. Atlantis could be dara. What's my thing of belief? What's my comment on this? Um I don't know about Atlantis Darka that that rel that hypothetical relationship. See, um, Atlantis, this the story of Atlantis came from what? Plateau, Aristotle, one of these guys. And, uh, that's Greece. So, that's about 3,000 years ago, let's say, roughly. Yeah. 3,000, maybe 2 and a half thousand. But let's give it 3,000 years just to make it a round number. So, maybe these fellows, they heard the story 3,000 years ago. Now, Dwara is definitely older than 3,000 years. So it could be that they heard the story of this great city that went under the ocean because of the earthquake and then they the the Greeks called it Atlantis but the story came from India. It's possible. Yeah. So I think there is a small possibility. I will not say it's guaranteed that this is the one. Yes. Atlantis is dar I won't say that. I'm saying it's possible. We cannot discount the possibility. Maybe the possibility is slightly small but it is a possibility. And I am open to considering it. That's what I'll say. Um, El Dorado and Sri Lanka. Now, Sri Lanka was called a city of gold back in the day. I don't know how many thousands of years ago during the Ramayan era. The El Dorado that the Spaniards were looking for was a different city. I promise you of that. Let me tell you the story. Do we have time? The Spaniards were driven by this greed, this lust for gold. Okay. So their their guy Christopher Don Christobal Colon Christopher Columbus had had discovered this new world and he had come back to Spain with promises that there is gold out there so that he could have a great career as a conqueror as as a governor of Espanola and so on. It didn't end well for him but the the stories inflamed the whole of Spain that there's gold out there plenty of gold and then they were able to find some gold. They disco they destroyed the Inca Empire. Franchesco Pidaro was it was Heran Cortez. It was Pizaro of gold. So they thought there is a city out there somewhere in the jungles which has so much gold all the other gold in the world becomes obsolete and there were stories of Sibola the seven cities of gold which came from uh during the uh before the Spanish reconista and so on. because of all these myths and legends and so on also because of uh stories associated with uh what's his name I forget the name right now lots of names so because of these stories you know you had uh this myth that was created of El Dorado a city of gold it has nothing to do with Lanka it was a myth in the Spanish imag imagination they were looking for that not for Lanka that I can tell Rik says how to achieve redness in life up first of all understand yourself most people don't spend the time to understand themselves they don't take the time to understand themselves to understand yourself you would be alone people are scared to be alone you first have to understand yourself which means you understand your strengths and weaknesses then you you build on the strengths by raising your standards and working as hard as possible you don't achieve greatness by being a part-time worker or whatever. You have to work you work really hard and some people discover it very late. It is what it is. Yeah. So, it's it's a process. It's a long process. All right. With that, I'm going to end today's session. Once again, 2 hours 17 minutes almost. So, thank you so much. Apologies to those of you whose questions are still there. I'm sorry I can't take all the questions in one session, but please keep ask. Okay. How about next weekend we do a question only based on the live chat so that you all get the chance to ask questions. Okay, next weekend, next Saturday, I'll take questions only from the live chat. No questions from the comments. All right, thank you so much. Keep asking questions. Keep raising your standards. Keep working hard and take care of yourselves. And I'll see you next weekend. Thank you.