Hey, Heat. Good evening and good day everybody and welcome to this emergency episode of the Ask Abijit Show. Uh this was supposed to be uh an episode in which I take questions from the comments but uh well the war has begun. The war that everyone was anticipating but we didn't know when it will happen. The Iran war the American and Israeli attack on Iran that's happened. It's started sometime early in earlier in the day and uh yeah the war is progressing now. So um and it's it's actually a very very important event. It's uh one of the events that's possibly going to define the history of the world going forward. Yeah. And it's going to have an effect on everything. It's going to have an effect on the United States, on on West Asia. It's going to have an effect on the Russia Ukraine conflict. It's going to have an effect on China. It's going to have a big effect on India. And there's another war going on which is Pakistan, Afghanistan. So this is a time for war. And now the US and Israel and the US have attacked Iran today morning. So a lot is happening and we're going to discuss that and we're going to keep an eye on the evolving situation together for the next uh few hours and I'll take I'll take questions only about Iran and the surrounding situation the geopolitical situation. I will not take questions about history or or any other thing today or science or whatever else. Only questions about Iran and and geopolitics. So let let's see who all is there on the live stream. Let's see u who all is there with us. I can see a lot of people. Rahul Dunak Achara Chanaka Kanesh Kakosh Kanesh Koshik Shri Achandra Vision VB Sumit Agarwal Mi Rao Manhattan Lazy Gamer Mac 4 Janu Rahul Dunak Han Sharma Canel Geopolitical Dubai is here from Indor. Good evening. Shivasai says full support to Israel. I know I know I know what you mean. Raika Jash Ramit Raj Singh Chadasuma uh Adit Ashwinir Arasho okay mystic skayush Singh is here. Pranam G Rushab T uh really now Miss Patel hello Balki Balki today Ashish Tabra Shivasai Somi Karan Nalawad Jashir Drama Boy SJ SHSJ who supports Israel Dakwora is here from Gujarat Rav light Apurva Anupama Apurva Anupama Tamo Biswas good evening Swami is here from Jaipur Patadana Amisha Misha good evening chat DSP uh Hensy Penguin good to see you sir good to see you after a while is back from future I think uh Mac 4 chat DSP podcast Punjabi is here online hello it's me Sean um who else SJ chat DSP and so many other people I will not be able to greet you all individually but uh thank you so much for being on this live stream love Achara Aditya Kumar Ram Ashish Vandit wandit sorry wandit not vand And yeah, many Israel supporters here. HCN says Pet Nil DH um Shank Shank Z says yo Vince Smoke and everybody else. Okay. Okay. Ka Mlevin is also here. So what's going on is the question. I'll take your questions of course, but let's first establish what's happened thus far. Let's take a look at Twitter, shall we? uh let's take a I've been primarily looking at what's happening on Twitter because you get a real time u information about what's happening if you if you look at Twitter Twitter seems to be you know really useful and helpful in that in that sense uh give me a second can I can I do it like this I think yeah this is kind of more useful perhaps um okay so or is it is this better Maybe this is better. Is this better? Is this better? I think uh we'll do it this way. How about that? Okay. So, um Twitter Twitter. Okay. So, this happened around 11 around early noon India time just before 12. Israel says it has launched a preemptive attack on Iran. Explosions are being reported in Thran with red alerts triggered in Israel. Right. So this is where it began around that time is when we started getting the news that something has happened, something has happened, something is going down. Then we have Donald Trump and Trump gave out uh this message this this speech. He gave an address to the nation and to his nation and to the world. So let's ask Grock to Okay, what do we have? What does Grock have to say about this uh strong support etc etc. Transcribe the video content. So, let's let's see the transcript of this, shall we? If Grock can do it, I'm sure Grock can do it. Grock is very capable. Um, it's searching the web and whatnot. So, Trump essentially has announced uh that the the war has begun. So, here's the full transcription, shall we? Where is it? Okay, here's what Trump said. A short time ago, the United States military began major combat operations in Iran. Our objective is to defend the American people by eliminating imminent threats from the Iranian regime. A vicious group of very hard, terrible people. Its menacing activities directly endanger the United States, our troops, our bases overseas, and our allies throughout the world. For 47 years, the Iranian regime has chanted death to America and waged an unending campaign of bloodshed and mass murder, targeting the United States, our troops, and the innocent people in many, many countries. Among the regime's very first acts was to back a violent takeover of the US embassy in Thran, holding dozens of American hostages for 444 days. In 1983, Iran's proxies carried out the Marine Barracks bombing in Beirut that car that killed 241 American military personnel. In 2000, they knew and were probably involved in the attack with the attack on the USS. Many died. Iranian forces killed and maimed hundreds of American service members in Iraq. The regime's proxies have continued to launch countless attacks against American forces stationed in the Middle East in recent years, as well as US naval and commercial vessels and international shipping lanes. It's been mass terror and we're not going to put up with it any longer. From Lebanon to Yemen and Syria to Iraq, the regime has fun armed, trained, and funded terrorist militias that have soaked the earth with blood and guts. It was Iran's proxy Hamas that launched the monstrous October 7th attacks on Israel, slaughtering more than 10,000 innocent people, including 46 Americans, while taking 12 of our citizens hostage. It was brutal, something like the world has never seen before. Iran is the world's number one state sponsor of terror, not Pakistan, apparently. Okay. And just recently killed tens of thousands of its own citizens on the street as they protested. It has always always been the policy of the United States, in particular my administration that this terrorist regime can never have a nuclear weapon. I'll say it again, they can never have a nuclear weapon. That's why in operation midnight hammer last June, we obliterated the terror regime's nuclear program at Foro Natans in its vahan. After that attack, we warned them never to resume their malicious pursuit of nuclear weapons and we sought repeatedly to make a deal. We tried. We tried. They wanted to do it. We wanted to do it. They didn't want to do it again. They want We wanted to do it. They didn't want to do it. They didn't know what was happening. They just wanted to practice evil. Okay. But Iran refused just as it has for decades and decades. They rejected every opportunity to den to renounce their nuclear ambitions and we can't take it anymore. Instead, they attempted to rebuild their nuclear program and to continue developing long- range missiles that can now threaten our very good friends and allies in Europe. Our troops stationed overseas and could soon reach the American homeland. Just imagine how emboldened this regime would be if they ever had and actually were armed with nuclear weapons as a means to deliver their message. For these reasons, the US military has undertaken a massive and ongoing operation to prevent this very wicked, radical dictatorship from threatening America and our core national security interests. We're going to destroy their missiles. We're going to raise their missile industry to the ground. It will be totally again obliterated. We are going to annihilate their navy. We are going to ensure that the region's terrorist proxies can never can no longer destabilize the region of the world and attack our forces and no longer use their IEDs or roadside bombs as they are sometimes called called to so gravely wound and kill thousands and thousands of people including many Americans and we will ensure that Iran does not obtain a nuclear weapon. It's a very simple message. They will never have a nuclear weapon. This regime will soon learn that no one should challenge the strength and might of the United States armed forces. I built and rebuilt our military in my first administration and there is no military on earth even close to its power, strength or sophistication. My administration has taken every possible step to minimize the risk to US personnel in the region. Even so, I do not make this statement lightly. The Iranian regime seeks to kill. The lives of courageous American heroes may be lost and we have and we may have casualties that of often happens in war. But we are doing this not for now. We are doing this for the future and it's a noble mission. We pray for every service member as they selflessly risk their lives to ensure that Americans and our children will never be threatened by a nuclear armed Iran. We ask God to protect all of our heroes in harm's way. And we trust that with this help the men and women of our the armed forces will prevail. We have the greatest in the world and they will prevail. To the members of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard, the armed forces and all of the police, I say tonight you must lay down. I say tonight that you must lay down your weapons and have complete immunity or in the alternative face certain death. So lay down your arms, you will be treated fairly with total immunity or you will face certain death. Finally, to the great proud people of Iran, I say tonight the hour I say tonight that the hour of your freedom is at hand. Stay sheltered. Don't leave your home. It's very dangerous outside. Bombs will be dropping everywhere. Bombs will be dro dropping everywhere. When we are finished dropping our bombs, you take over your government. It will be yours to take. This will be probably your only chance for generations. For many years, you have asked for America's help, but you never got it. No president was willing to do what I'm willing to do tonight. Now, you have a president who is giving you what you want. So, let's see how you respond. America is backing you with overwhelming strength and devastating force. Now is the time to seize control of your destiny and to unleash the prosperous and glorious future that is close within your reach. This is the moment for action. Do not let it pass. May God bless the brave men and women of America's armed forces. May God bless the USA. May God bless you all. Thank you. So that's Trump's address. He is What is Trump saying? What did Trump say? Trump said that this is a regiment operation. very clearly when we are done the people of Iran can take over that's what he is saying this is a region change operation this is some some people were asking just now that this is just a few a few air strikes or whatever why are you calling this a war see what Trump said this is the launch the initiation the beginning of a regime change operation and the objective is to end this current regime the current regime in the objective That's what the US seeks to do. Okay. Uh so that's the deal. This is a regime change operation that's that's ongoing and uh it has been initiated by Israel but the US Yeah, it looks like it's going to be a fight to the finish. So this is just the initial phases of the war. Now what else do we have? We have the US Department of War which is saying operation epic fury. So they have named this operation epic fury. The US department of war. What else do we have? We have Benjamin Netanyahu who has uh put out a tweet a few hours ago, four hours ago. Uh I'm pretty sure that uh the speech is in Hebrew. So let's see the translation of uh Mr. Natanyahu tweet. My brothers and sisters, citizens of Israel, just an hour ago, Israel and the US embarked on an operation to remove the existential threat posed by the terrorist regime in Iran. I thank our great friend, President Donald Trump, for his historic leadership. For 47 years, the Ayatollah's regime has chanted death to Israel and death to America. It has spilled our blood, murdered many Americans, and massacred its own people. This murderous terrorist regime must not be allowed to arm itself with nuclear weapons that would enable it to threaten all of humanity. Our joint operation will create the conditions for the brave Iranian people to take their fate in their own own hands. The time has come for all parts of the Iranian people. the Persians, Kurs, Azeris, Balo, Aawazis to cast off the yoke of tyranny and bring freedom and peace values to Iran. I call on you people of Israel to heed the instructions of the homeront command. In the coming days during Operation Lions Roar, we will all be called upon to show patience and strength of spirit. Together we will stand. Together we will fight and together we will ensure the eternity of Israel. So that's the statement by Prime Minister Nathan Yahu of Israel. Uh that's 4 hours ago. So it's very clear this is the beginning of a war. The US and the and Israel are working together. They're working together and the objective is to end this regime. The objective is to change the regime in Iran. This is the beginning of a war. It's not a few limited air strikes or missile strikes. Uh our MEA, what does our MEA have to say about about this? Has our MEA made any statement? Uh this is the official MEA account on Twitter. Uh Dr. Jashankar is talking about some India EU stuff. India in Israel has put out an advisory in view of the prevailing situation in the region. Okay. Indian nationals are are asked to exercise full utmost caution and remain vigilant and so on. So this is so if you are in in Israel, if you're an Indian national in Israel, take a look at the this statement by the uh Indian embassy in Israel. This is an advisory from the Indian embassy in Thran. So once again, if you're in Thran for whatever reason, well, please pay attention to what the the embassy of India has to say. Uh and uh yeah, whatever else, not a lot happening here. What else do we have? Syri Muhammad Marandi uh he says if I'm targeted please receive your information from sources that are follow Twitter. So yeah uh this is a statement by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia the foreign ministry. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia condemns and denounces in strongest terms the blatant Iranian aggression and the flagrant violation of the sovereignty of the UAE, Bahrain, Qatar, Kuwait and Jordan. The kingdom affirms its full solidarity and unwavering support for the brotherly countries and its readiness to place all its capabilities at their disposal in support of any measures they may undertake. This also it also warns of the grave consequences resulting from the continued violation of the state's sovereignty and the principles of international law. Um yeah, Saudi airspace may be part of this operation. So international law. Okay. And this is a statement from the first statement from the Supreme National Council of the Islamic Republic of Iran. This statement uh h was put out about 3 hours ago in the name of Gore etc. This morning the courageous nation of Iran witnessed an aerial operation carried out by the brutal regime of the US in collaboration with the what they call the corrupt Zionist regime targeting certain locations within the country. This malicious act took place once again during the course of negotiations because negotiations are ongoing in Janev in in Switzerland. uh Geneva uh during the course of negotiations reflecting the enemy's mistaken belief that the steadfast nature of Iran would surrender to their ignorable demands through such cowardly actions. The armed forces of the Islamic Republic of Iran have commenced a decisive response to these hostile acts and will continuously keep the honorable people informed. The following points should be noted. According to the information obtained regarding the plans of these two corrupt regimes, their operations in Thran and certain other cities are expected to continue. Yes, obviously if you look at the statement of Donald Trump and if you look at the statement of Benjamin Netanyahu, it's clear this at the beginning of the war, the beginning of the regime change operation. Uh so these operations are expected to continue. Therefore, while maintaining calm, citizens are advised where possible to travel to other areas of or or cities accessible to them in order to remain safe from the aggressions of these two regimes. They're saying go out of the Haram. Essentially, that's what they're saying. The government of the Islamic Republic Republic of Iran has made prior arrangements to ensure the provision of the essential needs of society. There is no cause for concern regarding the supply of basic necessities. Citizens are requested to refrain from crow crowding shopping centers as such gatherings may pose potential risks. Schools and universities will remain closed until further notice. Banks will continue to provide services to the noble people of Iran. Government offices will operate at 50% capacity for the time being. Further reports will be announced in due course and so on. This is uh from Iran in India. So that's kind of where we are right now. Now if we can continue to monitor Twitter and and see what's happening. Um is there any statement from China? Uh we'll we'll look into that. So that is what's happening. The this is the beginning of a regime change operation, a joint regime change operation by the United States and Israel. The objective is to remove the current government that that runs that that rules Iran. The objective is to change the regime. That's where we are. And this obviously u is going to have is going to be very consequential for India. There's also another war going on right now in India's backyard in India's neighborhood that is Afghanistan and Pakistan. Right. The Pakistan has launched an air strike, multiple air strikes on Afghanistan and the Afghan government is has responded. So there is border warfare happening between Afghanistan and Pakistan. The Afghanistan apparently has shot down a few Pakistani fighter planes. They've dropped bomb bombs in Karachi and Islamabad and whatnot. Right? So there's escalation there. Uh the question is uh what is Pakistan's involvement going to be in the Iran Iran regime change operation in the war on Iran? Will Pakistan allow uh its airspace to be used by by the United States uh in the war against Iran? Right. Um why is there a war happening between Afghanistan and Pakistan? Is it is it is it does it have something to do with the American desire to regain control of the Bram air base? What does India have to do in in all of this? What does what is India's role in this? Some people are saying it's time to resume operation Synindur 2.0. You know, start operation Zindur 2.0. and and you know achieve our uh military and political objectives in Pakistan. Is that something that's on the cards? So these are the questions that we have right now. Now let me see what questions people have asked thus far. Let's see. Hani Sharma says first US proxy Pakistan did a brave attack on defenseless Afghanistan and then Israel and the US launched multiple missile strikes in Thran including Ali Khabi's house as well. uh why does the US regime destabilize the region continued uh and if they are surely going to do a regime change in Iran then why do they need Bram for which Pakistan is fighting Afghanistan and if that is strategically important why they leave it in the first place in 2021 uh did Modi G become Imran Khan 2.0 Zero Netanyahu did the same thing which Putin did to Imran Khan in 2022. Cherry on top Modi Gi said we stand with Israel and now this conflict I sense some wasal vibes vote. Okay. So once again let's uh unpack this question by Hani Sharma. Yeah Pakistan did uh the US proxy Pakistan did a brave attack on Afghanistan. Yes. uh air strikes which killed Afghan civilians and that's why that the Avad government has has responded by launching multiple strikes on on Pakistan on the Pakistani military. So that's why Afghanistan and Pakistan are at war currently. It's a state of war. Um and now the US and Israel have launched missile strikes etc on Thran. Thran has responded. It has launched strikes on on on multiple countries right hasn't tan. So if you look at the Saudi statement uh if you look at the Saudi statement uh it's denouncing u Iranian aggression on UAE, Bahrain, Qatar, Kuwait and Jordan, right? Because the the Iranian government has launched attacks on the UAE, on Bahrain, on Qatar, on Kuwait, Jordan, you know, most likely uh military installations most likely. Uh I I hear that at least one person has lost the one person has lost his or her life in Abu Dhabi. I hear that uh there have been there is there have been ballistic missile strikes or other missile strikes uh on Alud air base in Qatar I think it is and so on. So uh Thran has has responded for sure. Uh it looks like the house of Ali Kamei the supreme leader of Iran has been targeted maybe taken out right. It looks like that's happened. Uh the question is is Mr. Kami still alive? Because when you start a war of this this kind, a regime operation, you launch decapitation strikes. You launch strikes at targeted at the leadership of the nation whose regime you're trying to change. You want to eliminate the leadership as fast as possible. So what is uh the status when it comes to Mr. Kame? Is Mr. Kame safe or has he been taken out by the Americans? the Americans will try and take him out. So yeah, that's that's a question that we will have to look into. We don't know for sure. There are all kinds of rumors swirling around on social media. Um so they are definitely go going after a regime change in Iran. Why do they need Bram is what Honey Ferma is asking, right? Uh why do they need Bram? Well, Bram is the well it's it's it's a very very important air base. It it has it has facilities that can accommodate tens of thousands of soldiers. It has multiple runways and so on. It's it's like see the US has multiple massive air bases, right? One is Guam from which it can strike China if it needs to. Another is Diego Garcia from which it can strike at Iran, India, wherever it wants. Similarly, Bagram is like Diego Garcia plus Guam put together. That's how massive and extensive it is. It's an extremely sophisticated and capable air base that can well if if you hold it, you essentially can uh can can threaten multiple countries from there. You can threaten Iran, you can threaten India, you can threaten Pakistan, you can threaten China, you can even possibly threaten Russia from there, right? And just by holding Bram, you you can keep an eye on all these countries, you can spy on all these countries. That's why Bagram is very very important. Now the question the logical question Anishba is asking now is why did they leave it in the first place if it's so important? Well, they made a mistake. So uh the handover of Afghanistan to to the Taliban happened in 2021 and I did a bunch of live streams at that time also. Uh and the US essentially just handed over the country to the Taliban. Obviously it was not done you know randomly. the US and the Taliban had a long uh extensive set of negotiations um in in Qatar in DHA and eventually they signed the DHA accord some of and some of the text of the DHA accord between the US and the Taliban is classified it's secret and based on whatever understanding they reached they handed over power to the Taliban including Bagram air base they they the Americans left Bagram Haram overnight in the middle of the night Bram was undefended. It was empty when the Taliban walked in. Uh and this happened during the Biden administration. So it looks like the US government is now has now come to the conclusion this was a big mistake. We should not have left Bagram. Bagram is just too important. So the Americans haven't built Bagram but they have extended it right or during the 20-year occupation of Afghanistan. Bagram was built by the Soviets in the 1950s or 60s or whatever. So Bram is very important and it looks like Trump wants it back. It looks like the US establishment wants Bram back for which they can use Pakistan. Yeah. Uh so yeah that answers that question. Now what about this? Did Modi G become Imran Khan 2.0? Netanyahu did to Modi what Putin did to Imran Khan in 2022. So what did Putin do to Iran Khan in 2022? Putin did nothing. Immran Khan was in the wrong place at the wrong time. So the day that Vladimir Putin launched the Russian special military operation February 20 something 22nd 2022 I think it was that day Imran Khan was in Moscow and it was a very bad look. I mean he's in Moscow. He meets with Putin and right after that happens, right after that meeting, Putin launches the special military operation on Ukraine. So that's what happened to Imran Khan and a few months later he's taken out. He's he's ousted and put in jail, right? So kind of similar to what happened just now. So Mr. Modi was in Israel until yesterday or something, right? Or day before yesterday. He just returned from Israel and immediately after he returns return essentially almost immediately after Mr. Modi returns from Israel to India, Israel and the US launch this joint military operation, regime change operation on Iran. So uh is it the same thing that's happened to Mr. Modi uh what happened to Imran Khan? Not quite. Not quite. See, Iran Khan when he went to Moscow, he had no idea was what was going to happen. Mr. The Putin must have already decided what date and what time this special military operation will begin. He must have already decided that it would have nothing to do with Imran Khan's visit. Or maybe it was scheduled in such a way that once Imran Khan leaves the meeting, that's when this happens. So Imran Khan was not aware at all that the special military operation is about to be launched. Am I implying Mr. Modi knew what was going to happen? Am I implying that Mr. Modi knew that as soon as he leaves Israel, the action against Iran will be taken? Look, I don't know. But I think it's possible. I think it's possible that Mr. Modi knew exactly what was going to happen. And it's possible that Mr. Modi his visit to Israel uh signals just before the operation of the military regime in operation on Iran. Maybe it signifies or it signals that we are now on the side of the US and Israel. Maybe it signals that there have been a lot of things happening in the past few weeks that kind of signify that kind of signal give small signals to the world but if you put them all together it's a it's a clear consistent pattern it looks like India is now taking has now made a choice that we are going to be in some way or the other aligned with the US right so I am pretty sure Mr. Modi knew exactly what was going to happen and I think the whole world was anticipating that when once Mr. Modi leaves Israel and returns to India once he touches down in India the action will begin almost any time. So everyone knew as long as Mr. Modi is in Israel Iran won't be invaded and once Mr. Modi is back in India the countdown begins and anytime the invasion will happen and that's precisely what has happened. Essentially Mr. Modi was in Israel and once he's back here we go. I'm pretty sure Mr. Modi would have been aware of what the plans are. Right. So yeah, that's that's definitely the case the way I see it. Amisha says Israel and the US have launched a preemptive air attack on against Iran. Iran has also retaliated. Where are China? What is where are Russia? China is there any Russian or Chinese connection with Mr. Modi's visit to Israel? Regime change chaos in Middle East. This is a regime change operation. Yes. If you read out if you listen to Mr. Trump's address, it's clear that the objective is regime change. If you see Mr. Netanyahu's uh statement on Twitter. Once again, it's it's abundantly clear uh that uh this is a regime change operation. Uh let me once again pull this out. Um yeah. So uh if you look at uh Netanyahu's statement, it's clear it's it's a regime change operation, right? Uh, I'll have to translate this out again. It's clear the the Israel and the US have embarked embarked on an operation to remove the existential threat posed by the terrorist regime in Iran. So the operation will create the conditions for the people of Iran to take their faiths into into their own hands. Essentially, it's a regime in operation. Nothing nothing less than that. It's a regime in operation. Uh so yes regime change yes that's the objective um Iran has retaliated Iran has launched looks like missile attacks on Israel itself hifa for sure it looks like ashod perhaps Tel Aviv Jerusalem I'm not sure I've seen some evidence of that I've seen some interceptions in the air by the Israeli uh Iron Dome defense system it will be more visible in the night time obviously in the daytime it's hard to see what's happening in the sky is Iran Iran has launched missile attacks on other countries also Bahin Qatar Kuwait apparently uh Abu Dhabi I mean the UAE Abu Dhabi not Dubai Abu Dhabi and certain other nations as well and Israel Iran does possess very very strong missile capabilities um the question you're asking is what is is was there some Russian or Chinese connection with Mr. Modi's visit to Israel. I don't think so. I don't think so. Mr. Modi went to Israel on a bilateral visit very coincidentally just before the military operation on Iran. There are no coincidences in geopolitics. So uh and there's no Russian or Chinese connection with Mr. Modi's visit to Israel. I don't see that at all. I don't see that at all. Even I don't even see a Russian connection there. We seem to be in operating completely independently of Russia right now. Yeah. Um Yeah. So that's the deal. Chaos in the Middle East. Yeah. The chaos is going to actually most likely intensify. Nighttime will be see it's very strange that this uh military operation was launched in the morning like typically military operations happen at night. The right time to launch an attack on an adversary is around 4:00 a.m. 5:00 a.m. is a little late around 4:00 a.m. Let's that's the date of the night, right? That's typically when you launch an attack on your adversaries. But this thing happened in the morning. Uh so anyway, that's where we are. The chaos I expected to unfortunately intensify. Ammon Pata says, "Is it World War II? Should I start the preparation?" This is not World War II. uh it will we will be closer to World War II if Russia and China get involved. India is staying out of it. India is in no position to intervene but if Russia and China intervene well that could be kind of something that brings us closer to the third world war. Now now let's take a look at the map. Okay. Uh let's put the map on the screen and let's understand how Russia and China may intervene. So look, here is Iran, okay? Now, where is China? China is way far away, very far away. Uh Chinese occupied territory over here, it's it's very far from Iran. So there's not much China can do over here, okay? To to intervene in Iran. The Chinese navy, if they want to intervene, they have to cross uh the straight of Malaa. They have to cross the street of Hormuz and and I mean be in the Gulf of Oman essentially. if they want to intervene in some way. But the Chinese Navy is no match for the US Navy whatsoever, especially they can't put up the number if they need to help Iran because most of the Chinese Navy is is is essentially stuck over here defending China from the you know what China perceives as its adversaries. South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, uh Philippines, etc. which all are US proxies essentially. So the Chinese Navy can't put up ships in large numbers over here. Whether it is ships or submarines, it can't. So it can't do much to help Iran militarily. China, they can't do much. What about Russia? Well, Russia actually isn't really far away from Iran at all. I mean, uh, you know, if you measure the distance from here to here, oh, come on. Uh, let's let's measure distance. Can we measure distance? What on earth is happening? Can we Okay, now we can measure distance. So, it's about 500 kilometers away. The the Caspian Sey, the Russians have a presence there obviously, right? So, so if this war goes on, Russia can if it wants resupply Iran through the Caspian Sea. Russia isn't physically or geographically far away. Um, so Russia could get involved in in that manner. So if Russia gets involved, if China gets involved, then you have multiple countries getting involved and that could bring us closer to a World War II kind of situation, right? So that is the is the danger. Apart from that, right now, uh I see I don't see a World War II kind of situation happening right now, right? But if if Russia gets involved and China also also possibly that can bring multiple very powerful nations face to face and at each other's throat and throats and that could bring us closer to the third world war. Kumar Kaneska says Iran has started to hit nearby Islamic Middle Eastern countries. Don't you think this goes against them making country against them especially for PR? Iran has started to hit middle nearby middle Islamic Middle Eastern countries. Don't you think this goes against them making country against them? I have no idea what you're asking, sir. PR I mean is Iran fighting with Islamic countries. Is it this war? Islamic countries have a history of fighting Islamic countries. Okay. Islamic countries have a long history of fighting against Islamic countries. Orang fought against the the the uh what's the dean sultanates or whatever right what P this is this is an existential crisis for Iran this is an existential crisis for Iran it's do or die who cares about PR when you are about to be destroyed no one cares about PR when you're about to be destroyed right the situation right now is that tomorrow morning there could be no Iranian regime left in that do or die situation. Do you imagine they'll be thinking about PR right now? They'll fight their enemies. This is this is the last throw of the dice essentially for Iran. It's do or die. Team talks says the US is not Russia. Okay. I don't think this will last for years. What are my thoughts? A school is hit in Iran and many kids are dead. That will will this create sympathy for the regime? No one cares. No one cares for human life. The US has taken out entire countries like this in 2020 2003 they flattened half of Iraq killed millions possibly the don't don't you think kids died does anyone care doesn't anyone even remember that it doesn't matter so see if you look at the statement of Trump if you see see the look at the statement of Netanyahu they are calling Iran a terrorist regime the first stage is to is to is to essentially paint your adversary as the devil. So it's no longer a human adversary. It's the it's this it's the devil himself, right? And then if something like this happens potentially that some kids died or whatever, they'll blame the Iranian government for this that you have created the conditions where this is this is this has happened. U it's not going to create any sympathy for the Islamic regime for the Iranian regime. U what are my thoughts about whether this war will last for years? Very unlikely. Very unlikely. See, some people will say that look, the Ukraine war is going on for years now. So, is it possible the this war against Iran will go on for years? It's highly, highly unlikely. Let me explain why. Why is the Ukraine war going on for years? It's because the Ukrainian military is fighting back against Russia, right? They're resisting. That's why the war is going on for years. Now, ask yourself this very simple question. Who is how is the Ukrainian military able to fight for years? Where are they getting their arms, ammunition, supplies, money, whatever from? They're getting it from the West. Ukraine is fighting because they are being resupplied and supported by the West on a monthly, weekly, daily basis. If the west had not given that aid and support to Ukraine, the war would have been over in a matter of days or weeks. Right? So Ukraine is fighting because it is being constantly resupplied by the west. Ukraine is merely a proxy of the west. Now can Iran go on like that fighting against a co a combined attack from a combined force of Israel and the US? It can fight possibly fight back continue fighting only if somebody constantly resupplies it. Who is that somebody? Who will do that? Can Russia afford to get embroiled in this Iran war when it's already embroiled in in in Ukraine? Highly unlikely. Most likely Russia will want to stay away from this and may who knows there may be some back backdoor deal between Russia and and and the US. You know, you take Ir you take Ukraine and allow and stay out of Iran. We'll take Iran. That's also a possibility. It's a possibility. I'm not saying it's happened. It's possible. These sort of back door back door deals are routine in geopolitics, right? What does Russia seek? Russia seeks the demilitarization, de denazification, etc. of Ukraine and a regime change in Ukraine and it seeks Ukraine to be permanently um not aligned with the west. It wants Ukraine to remain neutral and it wants to retake all the Russian dominated territories in Russian majority territories in Ukraine and possibly a regime change in Kiev. So if the Americans are okay with that, then Russia gets what it wants. But obviously this doesn't come for free. Everything has a price. The price could be stay out of Iran. Um that's a possibility. I'm not saying it's happened obviously right now. So if Iran falls, it's going to be a disaster for China, especially especially for China. Yeah. because China is a nation that has a massive Achilles heel and that is it is not self-sufficient in terms of energy. Okay. Warun Bajad says is this the best time for India to capture P while the US is occupied with Iran and Pakistan is occupied with Afghanistan? Uh no no this is not the best time for India to capture PK. Do you think the US is occupied with Iran which means it says it sees nothing else? And because Pakistan is fighting Afghanistan on its northern frontiers, do you think it doesn't have armed forces deployed against India on the eastern frontier? Do you think so? Really? If India gets to capture P, I mean it's it's possible India gets to recapture P. It can only happen if we get American approval for that. Without American approval, India can't recapture P. That is today's situation. This is not the best time for India to capture P. Unless there is some kind of deal with the US and Israel. Mr. Bodhi was in Israel just until day before yesterday, right? Perhaps yesterday, I think, whenever it was. So, is there some kind of deal? Have we even have we been given some kind of permission? Right. Pakistan is is an American asset. It's also indirectly an Israeli asset. So if if India gets to retake P, it will only happen if there is American approval or Israeli approval. Without that nothing happens. Understand that. Kumar Kanishka says what will be the impact of this development on India and what could India what could be India's role in all of this and the best outcome India can hope for well the best outcome that India can hope for it depends where India stands today if India has already decided that it is now on America's side if India has already let's say decided it is part of the American orbit today then it doesn't matter anymore what happens in the rest of the It doesn't matter anymore. Whatever the master says is fine. Yeah. Um what is what could India's role be on be in all of this in the Iran regime change operation? Nothing. India is going to be a spectator. If there is some kind of deal with the US, India may get to retake P which I think is unlikely. Things changed after operation Synindur slowly gradually in the in the months after operation Sindor. lots of things change for India. Um the imp one of the impacts of this development on India, let's say the Americans and Israelis succeed in the regime change operation and they do a regime change in Iran successfully. Well, one impact of that could be that India now gets to acquire to buy to purchase Iran in oil. That could be one development for India. So it's a very small develop thing for India. We are now once again able to acquire to to purchase Venezuelan oil. If the Americans take Iran, then we may be able to to buy Iranian oil also. Yeah, that will be a small little nice thing for India, but nothing major. Beyond that, there is no Indian rule in this. What's the best outcome India can hope for? Well, if India is now on the American side, the best outcome India can hope for is an American victory. If India is still um multi-aligned or whatever the hell we call it strategic autonomy and all that in that case an Iranian defeat is a disaster for India. So it depends where we are today. Where are we today? What do you what do you people think where does India stand today? Is India still multi-aligned? Is India still strategically autonomous? Or is India now part of the American orbit? Yeah, depending on where we stand today, it depends. Prattana says, "Support for those who deliver justice to Epstein victims." Uh, there is no there is no justice in the world, my dear friends. Justice is delivered. Nobody delivers justice. You have to make your own justice for yourselves. Nobody is going to deliver justice to those abstaining victims. Especially when the people who have victimized those people are so powerful. There's going to be no justice for the Epstein victims. I mean, all those Epstein files have come out, right? They're kind of in the public domain. Some redactions, but we kind of understand who those people are. I mean, some of the names are very clear. Has any action been taken against those people? Have there been any lawsuits? Have there been any arrests? Nothing's going to happen. Nothing. That is unfortunately the way of the world. Kishin Burkar says Russia called Pakistan and launched attack on his on Ukraine. Israel had India and now now launched Pakistan and Afghanistan. Trump says Pakistan has rights to protest protect its interests during operation synindor. His words were different hypocrite. Indians get very upset when people aren't consistent with their words and actions. Every powerful person is a hypocrite. You know weak people, weak weak people in weak nations can't be hypocritical. Hypocr the right to be a hypocr to be a hypocrite is a privilege. Only the most powerful people in nations are hypocritical. So uh like Trump says that Iran is the is the world's biggest state sponsor of terrorism. That's what he says. We all know it's not true. It's Pakistan. But Pakistan is a is a useful asset for Trump and that's why Trump will not say a thing about Pakistan. Is it hypocrisy? No. It's it's called serving your own interests. Right. Every nation serves its own interest and the most powerful nations they do it openly and blatantly. So I know Indians are very emotional people and Indian Indians get upset when this happens. Indians India's national motto is satyame and we actually Indians actually imagine that that's the way the world should actually work that truth should prevail. Truth never prevails power might prevail. Okay. Uh it is what it is. That's the way the world works. And the sooner we understand that, the better equipped we will be to deal with the changing world, evolving world. Truth never prevails. Strength and might prevails. And those who are strengthy strength, mighty and strong, they will be hypocrites at at all occasions. That's the way it is. Okay. So let us not not let us we Indians should not get overly emotional about this. It is the way it is. I mean Indian politicians are also like that by the way. You know they they will say one thing do another thing and they will change change their tunes depending on the situation. Isn't that true about Indian politicians also? It is it is what it is. Ryuanchi says will Russia and China be be getting involved? Well that remains to be seen. China it's very unlikely for China to get involved. China is mortally afraid of getting involved in any military entanglement. Okay, that's why it has not invaded Taiwan thus far. China doesn't want to get involved in any military entanglement. China wants to play the game of economics and all that. They want they their objective was to take over the world economically. The United States has demolished the dream that China had. The belt and road initiative is now a thing of the past. Okay. Nothing. It's it's dead. Whether it is the belt and road initiative or the maritime silk road, it's dead. It's over. And uh China can't do a thing about the American military presence in Japan, South Korea, whatever. If China had the appetite for a fight, they would have done something about it. So when they can't do a thing, the Chinese can't do a thing about the American military deployment in their own backyard in Taiwan and so on, what do you think they'll do about the American military action against Iran? Nothing. Nothing. They won't be able to do a thing about this. China has been reduced to a helpless spectator. The kind of situation India is typically in. China has been reduced by the Americans to being a helpless spectator today. not as helpless as India. China will still try and do something maybe maybe cyber warfare or whatever the other whatever the whatever else but nothing actually kinetic. What about Russia? Russia also I think it's unlikely they will get involved. They're already bogged down in Ukraine, right? They're already involved in that. uh they can't afford to fight a two-front war, one in Ukraine and one supporting Iran against Israel and and the US. They I don't think they have uh the resources to do that. Doesn't make sense. They may try and support Iran in some way, maybe supplies, ammunition, arms or whatever, but that increases the likelihood that the Americans will will target the Russian ships or Russian supplies. that could start a direct war between the US and Russia and that's something nobody wants and obviously there is the very high possibility that the Russians and the Americans have agreed to some kind of backroom backdoor backroom agreement that we are not aware of some secret agreement that Russia gets to take Ukraine and the US gets to take Iran that's also a possibility and there could be many conditions in that deal maybe the Americans you know will will gradually take remove the the uh sanctions they've imposed on Russia and so on. That's a possibility. So I think it is unlikely that Russia and China will get involved in this matter. China very unlikely. China it's like 99% I'm sure China will not get involved. Russia I'm 70% sure maybe 80% sure Russia won't get involved. China is almost a guarantee. Russia also very unlikely it gets involved. Right. Agni Varna says, "Is India now an American vasal since India has chosen a side?" We'll see. Time will tell. We need some more time to be 100% sure about this. Yeah, a lot has changed after Operation Synindur. Operation Sundur was India's last you know attempt to to forge its own destiny and uh the US is just too mighty. So is India now a US vasal? I think it's still a little early to to say yes or no but the way things are going it looks like it's going in a certain direction. India clearly has kind of decided now that we see I think it was in 24 2024 or something when I had said this after the US election results and Trump had won. I had said this that Trump is going to give India a choice. You're either with us or against us and obviously what I had said at that time has obviously come true. Trump has given India a choice. You you choose one side. Looks like India is now in the process of choosing the American side. Yeah. And once that happens properly, you are no longer a fully sovereign nation. Datani says, "I believe this is just a way to force Iran to negotiate. Iran is way more powerful than people presume. Trump may lose midterms if the war stretches. I don't expect this war to last too long." Now, the question is, why do I not expect this war to last too long? It's because Iran doesn't have limitless resources like Russia does. Iran is kind of like Ukraine, big nation, powerful nation, but not unlimited resources. So, Ukraine is able to fight because of constant western aid. The West is constantly resupplying Ukraine. That's why Ukraine is able to fight. Who's going to constantly re resupply Iran? H you think Iran can last 6 months fighting the US and Israel? You think they have unlimited missiles? The Iranians, they will have a limited number of missiles and they don't have the production lines going that can turn out new missiles every day. The Americans are going to hit all of those industrial facilities, right? Iran doesn't have great air defenses. It It has great offense, missile offense, but limited missiles. Uh so I don't see this war going on for 6 months. It may go on for a week, maybe two, but Iran will lose this war. Okay? The negotiations were going on. The negotiations were a pretext for allowing for making this war happen. See how do you justify a war if you are a powerful nation? You first call your adversary for negotiations. So there have been rounds of negotiations happening in Geneva, Switzerland, right? You call your enemy for negotiations and when the guy comes and sits at the negotiation negotiating table with you, you present him with maximalist demands. So what are the demands the US has made during negotiations against Iran? dismantle your nuclear program entirely, demilitarize, destroy your missiles, become completely helpless. Can any nation accept those demands? The moment you denuclearize and demilitarize, your enemy will just walk into your country and take over. Right? So that's a regime. That's a guaranteed regime change. If you accept those demands, it's a guaranteed regime change. And if you don't accept your those demands then the then the US can say look we tried to negotiate Iran did not agree to any did not did not was not was not cooperative. So these negotiations that were going on these were simply the last phase before war can start. You use the negotiations as as justification. You you claim that Iran was not cooperative in the negotiations. We gave them the chance. We negotiated. We gave Iran so many chances. But Iran is being obstinate. So now we have no choice but to go to war. War is not a means to get Iran to negotiate. The negotiations were the the protects for setting the stage for war. There is no negotiation that's going to happen now. And whatever happens going forward, I don't see this war lasting very long. maybe a week, maybe two. Very unlikely that Russia will help Iran. Very unlikely. China, almost impossible for them to help Iran. Uh the only way this ends, the way I see it, is with a regime change in Iran. Yeah, I'll be shocked if it is doesn't happen now. Died with Prigoian says great opportunity for India to bring back its talent from the Middle East and Gulf region, but we are sleeping as always. Look, the best Indian talent goes to the United States. The rest of the Indian talent goes to Western countries, whether it's in Europe or Australia or wherever. And whatever is left goes to the Middle East and Gulf, right? And why does the Indian talent leave India? Because there are no opportunities in India. Because India is not a merit merit-based system. because of all the problems that India has that India has not reformed in the past 10 20 30 40 50 100 whatever years. So yeah the Middle East is a region that's typically in turmoil. There's always some crisis happening in the Middle East. Right now we have a military region change operation that's going on and uh it's already spilled over beyond Iran. Abu Dhabi has been hit. Kuwait has been hit. Qatar, Bahrain and Israel obviously yeah all these nations are one way or the other involved in the war. So uh obviously we know that there's a big Indian population in West Asia uh and and and when it comes to the UAE it's like high quality Indian talent right who who live there. So if the region is destabilized, there will be an incentive for those people to get out and return to India. But will they want to return to India long term? No. India has nothing to offer offer to them. Does India have jobs to offer them? Does India have a better lifestyle to offer them? Does India have decent living standards to offer them? India has nothing to offer those people. So if they leave the Middle East, they'll go to some other country. They may come to India temporarily but those who have decided to leave India if they return to India temporarily they will then seek some other place to go to this is this is not a great opportunity for India to bring its talent back from the Middle East or wherever to create that opportunity we have to reform India but we are not reforming India so no one's going to come back to India willingly at least Amisha says effect on India if mullas are China and Russia should help Iran. Yeah, China and Russia should help but they can't. They are not in a position to help. China is is frightened of a military confrontation with the US which will be devastating for China. Um and Russia is already bogged down in a war in Ukraine. So Russia will also not want to open a new front. It's like a two-front war, right? Two different wars we're getting involved in and both are against the US. I don't think Russia also can afford that. Um what's the effect on India if if the regime of the ayatlas the moolas is out the first effect is that Iran see if the if the regime is overthrown and there's a regime change in Iran it means that the pro- US regime comes to power a puppet regime of the US comes to power like what the situation was before 1979 maybe the son of the last sha of Iran may be reinstated or or put into place parachuted into Iran and become the titular sha or whatever and there'll be a US puppet regime in Iran. So if you if Iran becomes a US then what's the effect on Iran or on India? Well then America will once again allow India to purchase Iranian oil. That's one effect it will have on India. Secondly, Iran will become a pro- US nation and if India is already aligned with the US like it seems now, then India in Iran will have good relations. If India remains a nation with strategic autonomy and multi-arignment, then Iran, this new Iran will be anti-India and pro Pakistan. But if India is aligned with the US now then this new nation of Iran, this new regime in Iran will be mildly pro- India and of course strongly pro Pakistan. So it depends on a variety of factors. A lot depends on what India's stand is. Has India now chosen 100% to be in the US orbit or not? Looks like India has but we'll see. Teen Talks says, "You have said we have finally chosen US plus Israel, but isn't it a good thing because we are on the winner's side? Is Iran capable of harming mainland of the US? Iran is at this point in time not capable of harming the mainland of the US? Iranian missiles can't reach the US. uh Iranian u proxy operatives and guerrilla fighters or whatever may perhaps be in a position to perhaps do something against the US very unlikely that too. So mostly Iran is not capable of harming mainland US. Now I have said that we seem to India seems to have chosen US plus Israel. Isn't it a good thing because we are on the winner side? Sure. Good for us. Right. But the question you to ask yourself is what do the winners seek to do with India? See during the first world war, second world war, India was on the side of the UK. Mr. Gandhi recruited Indians to fight for the UK during the first world war. Mr. Gandhi who was all about nonviolence was recruiting Indians to to to join the British Indian army to fight for the UK in these foreign wars. And India was on the side of the UK and the UK ended up on the winner side both types. Right? So was it a good thing for India to be on the side of the winner? The winner who was destroying India, the winner who was sucking the lifeblood out of India and engineering artificial artificial famines and whatn not wasn't a good thing for India. So see being on the winner side doesn't necessarily mean that it's a good thing for you. Understand that. Remember that please Buddha goes nuclear. That's a great Buddha goes nuclear. Buddha goes nuclear says once again the west does whatever it wants and gets away with it. When will karma strike? Will global south always be under the boots? See the west is doing whatever it wants and it's getting away with it. Sure. But why is that the case? Why is the West able to do whatever it want and get away with it? It's because they are so powerful. They are way more powerful than the so-called global south. So, don't they deserve to win because they have made themselves so powerful? Don't they deserve it? What is the biggest sin in geopolitics? The biggest sin in geopolitics is weakness. If you are a sinner, you deserve what's coming for you. If you're a sinner, you deserve what happens to you. In geopolitics, weakness is a sin. And power, being powerful, is a virtue. The west is virtuous and the global south is a bunch of sinners from that perspective. Okay? The west will always keep on getting what it wants as long as it ensures it remains the most powerful entity in the world. Now when it comes to karma, do you understand the dharmic concept of karma? Karma, the law of karma, it's a philosophical spiritual thing. It's not physics, it's not science. But what does it say? What is it all about? It's a conservation law. Just like the conservation laws in physics, the conservation of of of energy, conservation of momentum, mass, so on and so forth. The law of karma is a conservation law. It's the law. the law of conservation of the merits and demerits of your actions over multiple lifetimes if you believe in that. So the law of karma is all about the conservation of the merits and demerits of your actions but not in this life or multiple lifetimes. That's why many evil people have wonderful lives. The the whole concept is that they will pay for it in future lifetimes not in this lifetime. Okay. Indians have Indians today are not even aware of what their culture is. Karma is not like I do something naughty and after 3 hours I I get to pay for it. No, that's not what karma is. Karma is not like I do some sin and after 6 months I pay for it. Karma is in my next in in my future lifetimes I will pay for misdeeds of this lifetime. That's what karma is. Okay Indians, you are so incredibly delinated you don't even know your culture anymore. That's not how karma works. And karma also doesn't say that if I'm naughty this lifetime, next next lifetime I'll be born as a mosquito. That's not what karma is. It's way more subtle than that. So first of all, please my dear friends, learn your own culture. Learn your own culture. So will the global south always be under western boots? As long as the global south remains weak, it will remain under under the boots of those who are powerful. If you are weak, you are a sinner. Being weak is a sin in geopolitics. And yeah, of course, those who are strong will not allow you to get strong and they will want you to remain weak forever. But don't blame them for it. You do whatever it takes to become powerful again. If it if you're weak, don't blame others. So yeah, as long as the global south is weak, it will remain under the boots of those who are powerful. That is the way the universe works. I mean that's how nature works. It's the law of nature. If you are a weak little animal, you will always be under the boots of the strong predators. Right? That's how it works. Wun Vishal YT says, "What are the possible implications of India getting chummy with Israel in the west? What is the influence of Israel in the politics and business? Israel is one of the most powerful nations in the world. Israel is in a situation where the US gives unconditional support to Israel no matter what happens. Right? That's why Israel is so incredibly powerful. Most people disregard Israel. They they they miss the presence of Israel or this tiny little nation on the map. Yeah. You have no idea how powerful Israel is. So um what's the possible implications of India getting chummy with Israel in the west? India is not getting chummy with anybody. We're not getting there are no chums in geopolitics. There are no friends in geopolitics. Right? Uh you have allies and adversaries in geopolitics and all these situations change depending on well how things are depending on a variety of factors. So uh what actually is happening is India seems to be aligning with the US. Now India seem the government of India seems to have realized that the way things are we have no choice but to align ourselves with the we with the US we have no choice but to pick a side now and we can't keep on playing this game of strategic autonomy multipolarity blah blah vishwaguru what etc we have to pick a side because the alternative is is we pay a tremendous price so Um what's the possible implications of India getting let's say aligned with the US? The implications are that India slowly gradually loses strategic autonomy. Uh India gets deeply penetrated technologically and in a variety of other ways. Um some good things for India that India will have more options when it comes to buying energy. If there's a regime in Iran, then India gets Iranian oil too, right? Um, India will get perhaps access to American markets in a in a better way like the deal that we have signed with the US uh and so on. So in if India becomes chummy let's say with with the west with with with the US then India will be like a gigantic Japan not exactly Japan because Japan has very high standards India does not. Um yeah but India will get some will get get some favorable outcomes especially for the people of India possibly but long term you become a vasal and that's never good for you says I think India is a good boy well see typically when you go to school who are the good boy in in school etc the good boys are the ones who are weak, right? If you're weak, you have no choice but to be a good boy. Um, so to be a not good boy, you have to be really strong. But India is not. India is neither strong economically 4 trillion 4.5 trillion dollar economy with a with a miserable GDP per capita similar to subsaharan African nations, right? And from a military perspective, yeah, we have military strength of the fourth most powerful military or whatever, but most much of our military equipment comes from other countries. We still have this incredible neverending delays in procuring fighter jets. We don't manufacture our own things. We don't manufacture our own jet engines. We have we insist on remaining dependent dependent on other countries. We insisting on not reforming ourselves. So when you have all these issues, you are destined to be a permanent good boy. General Subutai says it's how good it is to see racism against India come down? Uh has racism against India come down? I I am not aware of that. Yeah, I'm not aware. Uh Vun Vishal says, "Is an eternal world government possible?" Nothing. There is nothing in the universe is eternal. So from that perspective, nothing is that's not possible. But is a longlasting world government possible? Maybe a world one world government that lasts let's say two centuries. Is it is it possible? It is possible. Yeah, it is possible. Vaci says looks after the Epstein files, Modi has completely surrendered to the US. Israel visits also seems to be on the same lines. I don't think the there is a correlation between uh India hypothetically surrendering to the US and the Epstein files. I don't think there's a correlation between these two things. Looks like you you you're perhaps okay I may be wrong but looks like you are perhaps implying that there is some something in the Epstein files that has caused the government of India to surrender to the US. I don't think so at all. I don't think so at all. I don't think there's anything in the in the Epson files that in any major way compromises any Indian politician. I don't think so. Or any or or perhaps any anybody like Mr. Modi. I don't think so. What's happening is the effect of multi-pronged US pressure on India and the tremendous amount of leverage the US has over India. I mean India is compromised. India is infiltrated. Every Indian politician has children who study in the US or live in the US. Every Indian bureaucrat has family in the US. You are completely compromised that way. That's just one angle of compromise. The other angle is that we are dependent on other countries for our defense needs. They stop it, we done. We are helpless. Third, we are not self-sufficient in terms of energy. If the Americans tell the Saudis, the Saudi Arabia, UAE and other countries to stop supplying oil to India, which they can, then what do we do? Nothing. We are helpless. We are helpless. So when you are in that situation and there are so many other factors, there's the Pakistan angle, there is the Manipur angle, there there are so many angles all bearing down on India and that's why India has had no choice. I could see that coming in 2024, right? India has had no choice. Of course, in the past 10 years, if India had become self-sufficient and India had completely reformed itself, then this would not have happened. But this government chose not to reform anything. Of course, it's very difficult to reform a country like India in 10 years. That's also we have to understand. Okay. But there was no attempt made to do that. Manufacturing did not take off. the deep problems of of reforming u the bureaucracy, reforming the education system, none of it was not even attempted. Not even attempted. And in during operation zindur, we tried to stand up on on our own and and fight back against these evil forces Pakistan and so on. But Trump was too powerful. He made us stop operation sindur. And after that, it's been like going backwards, backwards, backwards. So um that's where India is today. That's where India is. It's possible that the Israel visit was about going somewhere to kiss the ring. Really? Now Miss Patel says we will get exploited by the US since we are weak. Every weaker nation gets exploited by stronger nations. It is the way of the world. It is the way of the world. It's just what it is. Yeah. Um now you will not get exploited if you stand up against them and you refuse to to cave in if you refuse to bow down but then they'll make you taste the pain right so if we let's say we if we decide not to give into the US demands and not not become part of their orbit then they will apply increasing pressure on India they U for example see one of our major sources of income is the export of IT services to the US the US can stop that that'll crash India's GDP growth rate that's one example of what they can do especially with AI coming becoming so powerful so agentic today it's it's the Indian IT services are now redundant they're worthless essentially India never never beca be became a producer of of IP of international of of intellectual property. We simply kept on exporting our donkey donkey work services, right? She cheap labor. We never reformed this stuff. So now once again the Americans can shut that off if they want to. But as long as we remain in their orbit, they will allow Indian IT services to be export exported to the US. So that's where we are today. Um it may be the case that there are only four sovereign nations in the world. Nilles Ranjan Shivasav says can India portray to be on the US side build itself just like China did increase its power simultaneously preventing US destruction mindfully? No. The US knows what China did, right? Do you think they'll make the same mistake again? If India see let's understand this let's say India decides to align itself with the US become part of the US orbit then what is the benefit India gets the benefit India gets is that the Americans don't destroy India don't crush India like a bug okay and you don't need military action to crush India like a bug they can crush India like a bug simply through economic action So if India decides to align itself with the Americans then the benefit we get is that they don't crush us like a bug. But beyond that since we are aligned with the US now let's say hypothetically does it mean the Americans will now allow India to rise like China? Absolutely not. India will be allowed to remain what it is and grow somewhat but never become a threat ever again or ever. Right? So that is what you get as a vasal. You are allowed to exist and you will be allowed to grow in whatever ways the master allows you to grow. But you you will never be allowed to become a threat in any way a potential threat in any way. Not possible. Really now Miss Patel says it's sinking in now. We are weak in education, so weak in innovation and weak in defense. Dependent for energy, technology, forever vulnerable to the predators. Well, I'm glad people are finally understanding where we are. We are trash in education. One of the worst education systems in the world. And some people in India say that this is this this is what would make us vishwa guru. So we are terrible in education. The education system is is terrible. It's garbage. It is trash. This new education policy is a waste of time. That's one issue. We are weak in innovation. What we India spends about 0.7% of its of its GDP in research and development. And that research and development is on paper. What actual research and development happens? I wonder what happens. I mean that 0.7% of GDP some of it will be the the money India India spends on its universities and so on. They go to the universities and see what research and development is happening. It's all fake. There are there's show me one piece of worldchanging research that's come out of India in the past 20 years. one one piece whether it is in physics whether it's it's in chemistry whether it is in biology whether it is in engineering whether it is in high technology AI quantum whatever show me one piece of worldchanging piece of innovation R&D that's come out of India in the past 20 years zero so even if you let's say hypothetically spending 0.7% of a GDP into R&D. What's the outcome of that? Nothing. Zero. That that to to change that you need reforms. You need reforms. Deep reforms. That's not even being attempted. Yeah. So, we are trash in education. We are zero in innovation. In defense, it's like a a lot of our defense depends on other countries. Yeah, we we are at in some things like the Akash system and some other systems and in ballistic missiles and and uh cruise missiles, hypersonics and so on. But we are dependent on the on the nations for so many other things. We are purchasing tanks from Russia. We had the Arjun tank that was world world class but we killed it more or less submarines. One day we purchase some submarines from Russia, one day some from France, one day from Germany. What? So we are weak in defense. Our air force is is dependent on foreign aircraft. We dependent on energy for from other on other nations. Now we are looking at digging for oil and gas in the undermans after after everything is so after it's so late technologically. See this is the problem and I've been speaking about this for so long right that we need to address these issues. Now what's the point of addressing it? So if if you have a nation like this with low standards I'm not saying you people have low standards. It's the people who lead you who have low standards. So if you have that situation, the predators can always come and pick on you, prey on you and take what they want. So says, is there any credible evidence that Prime Minister Narendra Modi knew in advance about any military escalation after his Israel visit or was his departure simply part of a presscheduled diplomatic trip? There is no credible evidence of anything. Okay. His departure was simply part of a pres-scheduled diplomatic trip. It's simply coincidence that whatever happened happened the way it did. There is no credible evidence of any such thing. Sar Pandi says, "Is India's alignment with the US related to Bangladesh? What will be Pakistan India situation then and how will it affect India Russia relationship?" India's alignment with the US has nothing to do with Bangladesh. What happened in Bangladesh, the regime change and so on and so forth, that was one piece of the puzzle. It is one. See, like I said, the US the the pressure the US is applying on India comes from multiple angles. It's multi-dimensional pressure. It's multi-dimensional leverage. Bangladesh is one component of that leverage. The regime change in Bangladesh, the attacks on the Hindus, the the pograms against the Hindus, the spillover into other areas, the fact that the the Bangladesh India border has been essentially super poor for decades. That's also leverage the US has on India. The spillover of the Burmese civil war into Manipur, the occupation of more than half of Manipur by foreigners, that's also leverage the US has over India. The fact that in certain states in India's far east, northeast, India doesn't really control much of the territory. Much of the ter territory is controlled by the church, that's American leverage on India. So it's not just about Bangladesh. It's about all these different points of leverage the Americans have established over India and India has allowed them to do it. Right? the past 10, 12 years, India could have shut these things down. India could have stopped the Bangladeshi infiltration into India. India could have deported the the millions of Bangladeshes. India could have taken control of the situation in in India's far east. India could have ejected the foreigners who are squatting in Manipur. India could have shut down the industrial scale conversion mafia that operates all across India. But India did none of these things. Right. And that's why India is you could say wherever it is today I would say today the situation is that there are four sovereign nations in the world not five. Um Pakistan India who cares about Pakistan India Pakistan is a US asset. Maybe India is on the verge of becoming a US asset also. How will this affect the India Russia relationship? um it will not be a good effect on the India Russia rel relationship. Obviously if India goes into the into the US orbit the relationship with Russia will suffer tremendously and not tomorrow morning but over the next 5 years you will see a change in everything slowly gradually slowly gradually you will see of course you you will keep up appearances through words nice tweets so you will make the people believe that nothing has changed through words through tweets and all the wonderful verbal actions and all that but things will change behind the scenes the actual actions on the ground will change so the if India has chosen the side of the US the relationship with Russia will suffer tremendously slowly gradually you will see it over the next 5 10 years Rahul Ladu says India should should India buy as much time as possible look India from 2014 until now had the time to change things to reform India that's what people had hoped that India will be changed that India will be changed properly reformed now what time do you want to buy you think there this government has any any any any does it really intend to reform anything no man's says, "Do you know about Jang's lectures and about Pak Judika?" No, I've not watched Jang's lectures. I've been many people have been telling me about Jang that he's fantastic and all. Um, I kind of briefly saw some clips of Jang. Yeah, he looks very competent. He looks like he knows what he talking what he's talking about. But there is something more to him. There is something more to him about Jang. I have not seen about Pax Jana. Okay. Deep learner says theoretically if India has an alignment with USA and Israel that the next Iranian regime wouldn't be pro Pakistan then I don't think it's a bad deal. All right sir that is I'm I'm glad you don't think it's a bad deal. I'm glad you think that way. Kick says so Rahul Gandhi is right about whatever. Uh no comments no comments. No comments. Inferno says, "We have low standards. We are nowhere near where we should be. There's no hope for the country. We are doomed. All that remains is that people should reminisce about the past." See when people are helpless when people are helpless they give them the sol they when people are helpless they give give themselves the some kind of solace by by remembering the distant past that 1,000 years ago we were this 1,000 years ago our ancestors did this and that or whatever we keep on reminiscing about the past when we are helpless today other people of India help us today well the people of India What agency do the people of India have today? The agency the people of India have in a democracy is that you can go and vote. So let's say you try voting for so and so party for a few years. Maybe they don't give you the results that you wanted. So then you decide no I'll change now I'll vote for this party and you try that. Once again you don't get what you want. Then what do you do? That's the only agency people of India have to vote this way or that way. Beyond that, what can the people of India do? You're helpless. The people who actually decide the fate of the country, they are essentially there's nothing you can do about them. Whether you pick this lot or that lot, things are things don't really change much. And when it comes to the people who actually rule the country, the bureaucracy and the other institutions, well, they don't want things to change either. And why does India have low standards? It's because of these these reasons. It's not the people who have low standards. Why do why does everybody want to leave the country? Because they actually have high standards, but this country is keeping them down. Indians who go and live abroad, you'll see that they have the highest standards. So the problem is not the country. The problem is not you people. The problem is the system that is entrenched in power. The system that's the issue and the system is here to stay. So Vihung Kuran says India had to choose the side of the US right because the US has too much leverage considering IT industry in India heavy reliance on US-based products like Meta Google US presence in neighboring countries etc as of today if you look at today let's say we wake up today and we see oh my god this is the situation so let's say I was in a coma for 30 years okay completely hypothetical scenario I was in a coma for 30 years I woke up today And then I looked around, I assessed the situation. So I wake up today and I see okay, India's IT industry is one of the major sources of income for India and it is completely completely dependent on the on on the US. Uh India depends on all these American technological products like Meta, Google, etc., etc. The US has a presence in all the neighboring countries. They control all the neighboring countries. Then if I wake up today morning, I'll say yes, obviously India has no choice but to become an American vasal. No choice. Otherwise, they'll crush us like a bug. But let's say I was not in a coma for 30 years there I would have seen the last 15 years India India had the chance to become genuinely sovereign by enacting major reforms and addressing all the weaknesses and deficiencies in the country the past 15 20 years we had the chance to do that but we chose not to do that I mean uh we people didn't didn't have the choice the government had the choice India could have become something more than an IT exporter of IT services. India could have become a producer of intellectual property of of of not just services but products. India could have built up its own social media platforms. India could have become a major exporter of not exporter but producer of software that the world craves without which the world can't can't survive. That's what India could have done. India could have 10 years ago, 15 years ago decided not to to to phase out American products like Meta, Google etc. and to create its own products, superior products that will that will serve India and the rest of the world. India could have chosen these things in the past 1015 years because we did none of those things. That's why today we are on a situation where India has no choice but to choose the US and in the past 15 years India could have done something about the presence of foreign powers in neighboring countries also. India has chosen in the past 10 15 20 years to do nothing about these problems and that's why we are in this situation today where where we are where we are. Tintox says is it possible to change regime only through air strikes? What are what are the steps necessary to achieve a regime change? How will the people in Iran organize when the bombs are raining? Great question. Great question. How do you actually effect a regime change somewhere? How do you do that? H can you affect a regime change simply by raining down bombs, air strikes? you know, you send aircraft, it will rain down bombs, it'll target milit military installations, maybe the the um you know, the the the homes of the people who run the regime and so on. Is that enough? It's not necessarily enough because see Iran, the government of Iran has been expecting this to happen. They they've been waiting, they've been expecting a war on Iran. They have been seeing in the past few weeks and months the the gradual steady and massive buildup of American military power surrounding Iran. So they knew it's coming. So it's not like they were waiting for the Americans to throw to to launch bombs to to launch bombs on their homes. They would not have been sitting in their homes. They would have moved out the you know the the the key uh powerful members of the Iranian government. Kame's Kab's house has been taken out. I'm sure he wasn't there. So if the regime's top leadership is not taken out, then even through bombs and air strikes, you can't change the regime. So air strikes aren't enough. The air strikes will be enough to decapitate the regime and make it ineffective only if then they can take out the top leadership, the top 100 people or so. But even if you take out the top 100 people, the top 100 people would have made would have taken precautions. They would have made contingency plans. They would have designated survivors that okay, if I die tomorrow morning by the if I'm killed by the Americans, you three next three people are the next in line. If I am taken out, you guys take over and continue. So even if you take out the the top 100 people, the regime can still survive. So what are the steps necessary to achieve a regime change let's say in Iran? First step is to take out the top leadership. Second is to is to take out the um air defenses. Third is to take out the Iranian offensive capabilities. Fourth is to take out the Iranian army if they or or induce them to surrender. While these things are happening and the bombs are raining down, the people in Iran can't organize. Once the Americans have taken out the top leadership, top 100 or 200 people and they have taken out the air defenses and and missile offensive systems and all that and they have also taken out the the the IRGC and all that significant portions of that then the nation is in chaos and that's when they can put boots on the ground because eventually they're going to have boots they will need to have boots on the ground eventually you will have American military in Thran for this to happen. Okay. Um so what the Americans are hoping for is to achieve chaos in Iran as soon as possible. A situation where there's nobody running really running the country. That's when the situation is ripe for um giving a last ultimatum to the Iranian armed forces who are now leaderless to to surrender. The Trump already said that in his speech, right? He said to the IRGC and the Iranian government, put your weapons down and you will be given amnesty. If you don't put your weapons down, you you are guaranteed death. That's what Trump said. So eventually through military means they will hope to create a situation where they can give one final ultimatum and where it will be very likely that the government of that the Iranian military will put their put their arms down. So regime change is is not possible through only through air strikes. It's a combination of all these factors and eventually the regime change will happen only when there are US boats on the ground. The people of Iran won't be able to just randomly organize a government out of thin air. That would be very unlikely. It will it will need professional support for a new government to be set up and the Americans already have the plans in place. So yeah, Sanscar Vas, thank you very much Sanscar G. Thank you so much sir. Ricky says is there any country in the past that came out of vasalhood? That's an interesting question. So many countries have come out of vasalhood. Now typically how does how do you come out of vasalhood? See one example is Germany. 1930s Germany. 1930s Germany's economy was devastated. Yeah. It was dependent on on the US and other countries aid from those countries. But then somebody an ex-p painter became the leader of Germany and in just five years the whole country was transformed. Yeah. Germany came out of vasalhood. It did. That's one example. I'm not I'm not saying it's a fantastic thing what the Nazis did. There were obviously monsters and so on. No question about that. There's no question of glorifying Nazi Germany. I'm just saying it's an example of a country that transformed very rapidly. H um right so that's that's an example and obviously when you have uh when you have an empire that slowly disintegrates see all empires rise and fall right don't they so when for example the Roman Empire started slowly losing losing its its capabilities and and contracting that's when all there the the the various nations they had occupied various kingdoms they were occupied they became independent again they came out of Vasalhoud didn't they so there are many examples like that okay let's uh see some other questions okay Dad Chat says why is our missile department good but other defense research has no visible impact did they do something different or was it just one man's vision? Um, yeah, that's a good question. We we have one of the best missile programs in the world, don't we? Whether it's ballistic missiles or cruise missiles, some of the best missiles in the world, whether it's air defense systems like the Akash system, we we are tremendous in that. So we are world class in missiles but other defense research has no impact. Uh what's the cause for that? Is it one man's mission? It's not one man's mission. A missile program is not one man who does it. Maybe someday in the past one man had a mission vision that India will will be a world-class missile power. But that's a vision right the execution takes hundreds maybe thousands of people. And it's those people who make the difference not the person with the vision. We need vision. We need execution. So somehow India is great at at missiles. We produce some of the best missiles in the world. But when it comes to aircraft so what's the reason? One of the reasons I'll tell you what one of the reasons is that nobody is willing to export worldass missiles to other to other countries. Let's say India was in the market for buying ballistic missiles. Do you think anybody would sell ballistic missiles to India? Nobody sells that. Let's say India was in the market to to purchase Mac 5 cruise missiles. Do you think anybody gives that technology? Do you think anybody even sells that? Nobody does. So because there was no scope of importing these things, that's why India had to develop it on its own. When it comes to tanks, when it comes to aircraft, you can import these things. And that's where the import lobby comes into the picture. And allegedly there's a lot of money to be made in these things. But there was no money to be made in missiles because nobody sells you missiles. You see that's why we are so far behind in jet engines because you can buy jet engines from other countries. So when you can buy jet engines and make a nice piece of money for each jet engine that's purchased, why would you allow the Indian research programs on on on in jet engines to succeed? When you can buy extremely expensive submarines, why will you allow an Indian submarine program to to do very well? When you can buy lots of very expensive fighter planes, why will you allow the theas fighter plane program to do well? That's why it was delayed for decades. Right? So understand the missile department. There was no scope of purchasing missiles from other countries. Nobody sells ballistic missiles. Nobody sells hypersonics. Yeah. There's one example the Brahos the Brahos program. India and Russia have worked together on that. Well, there are strategic reasons for that overall. Yeah. So that's the deal. Alka Shikhar. Thank you very much. Alka Shikari. Thank you. Thank you. Yuko K says sir, why do you think we have become assal? Uh I I'm not saying we are it's not one thing, right? It's hundreds of things. Does India have sovereignty over Manipur and Nagaland? 100%. Is the government of India in control of what's happening in at least 50% of Manipur and 50% of Nagaland? Does India have sovereignty over these over the when you have tens of millions of Bangladeshes in India and you are not doing anything to deport them don't you think something is wrong when you are allowing foreign technology to to penetrate your country to the deepest levels and you're actually facilitating that don't you think this is a big problem in India? There's so many examples if you stack them together become very clear where we are. If we are a sovereign country, will we give into other countries another country's dictats and and pull out of Chabahar? Right? If we are a sovereign country and we have uh commercial interests in Mali, will you pull out because we are working with the Russians there? So many examples. Yeah. So many data points. Wishnav, thank you very much, Vishnav. political zack. Thank you very much, sir. Abai Singh says, "The scary thing is that the majority of our population don't even know that we are in such a dire situation." That is the beauty and utility of the education system. The education system dumbs your brain down. It prevents you from being able to think. So that is the act the virtue. That's the utility of the education system. If you want to do things and you don't want the people to realize that, you need a population that's really dumbed down by the education system. So the education system is actually great for the for that purpose to keep the people of India unaware of what's happening to ensure that you have a population who is completely clueless of where the country stands. That's why the education system is a great asset for those for whom this is beneficial. If you had all been educated properly. Okay, let's say if you had all been taught what the national interest is, then you would see the world differently. If you had all been taught what is the difference between sovereignty and vasalhood, then you would see the world differently. If you had been taught properly how to how to differentiate right from wrong and to do something beyond surface level analysis then you would see the world differently right but that's not the case all right says good to see you sir have you ever seen Dr. Soi Dr. Dr. Ankit Sha's talks or tweets on deolarization. One of his many wild predictions many have come true is that Iran will become a Christian nation thoughts. Uh I am not aware of Dr. Ankit Sha's pronouncements, statements etc. I'm not aware of that. Uh I don't follow him and on Twitter I'm blocked by him so I don't know about that. Uh his predictions that Iran will become a Christian nation. I have been saying that Iran will become a Christian nation. Seems that uh me and Ankit Sha agree on that one thing. I have been saying this for you can look at my past episodes I have said that Iran see today also on Twitter many people are in India celebrating Iran will become a Zoroastrian nation what are they what are they consuming is the question right Iran is not going to become a Zoroastrian nation when the Americans take over Iran and install a puppete in Iran one of the first things the Americans will is is pushing thousands of missionaries into Iran. Okay? And Iran will be turned into a Christian nation. Take the example of South Korea. South Korea is under US occupation. Iran once a regime change happens, Iran will come under US military occupation. The US will then have military bases in Iran including northern northern Iran Caspian Sea region. So Iran will come under permanent US military occupation. That's the future of Iran. If this war concludes the way we expect it to conclude with a US victory and once that happens, you will have Christian missionaries all across Iran. Iran will become a Christian nation. That is the future of Iran. Iran is not going to revert to be being a Zoroastran nation. It's not going to happen. Zoroastrian will be Zoroastrianism will be allowed to remain or maybe even exist a little bit more as a boutique religion in in in Iran by the Americans but Iran will be turned into a Christian nation in a few decades. So I don't know if what Ankit Sha has said but I I myself have been saying this that the future of Iran if there is a regime change by the Americans it's Christianity. Swastik says, "Is Yogi the only hope to reform India? Explain." Well, he is one politician who actually gives me hope. So, yeah, I'm I'm not saying he's the only hope, but he is one politician who does give me hope. Yeah. So, yes, I I I I when I see Mr. Yogi, when I see Yogi Adit G, I I still feel a sense of hope. I do. Aglivana says are we back to pre-1947 if not when will we become? No, we are not pre 1947. No, pre 1947 India's life expectancy was 3132, right? Um, India's GDP per capita was incredibly low 1947. Pre1947 India was under foreign military occupation. Pre1947 you had foreigners ruling India directly directly ruling India. uh today we are not in that situation. We're in a very different situation. Let's say hypothetically India becomes the US wasal. It will not be a pre1947 situation. It will be a situation that India has never been in where India is technically an independent country but is actually being controlled by somebody living by by a bunch of people who exist on the other side on the other side of the planet. So it's not a pre-1947 situation. It's a very different situation. It's a situation India has never been in. Yeah. So it's it's different. It's very different. Past time says so what can we do now? We are becoming powerless. Our lives here are degrading. Going out of India is not that easy for everybody. Do you see any chance? Well hopefully India's GD GDP per capita rises. India hopefully keeps growing at 67% whatever it is the next 20 years. So by 20 uh 2047 or wherever it is India becomes a 10 12 trillion economy perhaps. Yeah. So people's lives will be better. You will have more purchasing power. Um the pollution I don't know about that living standards I don't know about that but you will have more purchasing power and all that. And if India does become a vasal then maybe Indians will be allowed to the good you know the high quality Indians may be allowed to still im immigrate to the US that's a possibility u as a nation you become powerless if you are a vasal uh as a nation if you're a vasal and the in the and the foreign power allows a bunch of politicians to rule the country then they will not reform the country for sure so your lives the living standards won't rise so if you are a high quality Indian then you may be allowed to immigrate outside of India. So that's kind of where you are if you if you are a Wasal state. What can we do now? There is nothing the people can do. There is nothing the people can do. The people can't change the country. The government that you have elected is supposed to change the country. The people can't do a thing. Please understand in a democracy the people are powerless. The only agency you have is to vote. But that doesn't guarantee any outcomes. That guarantees nothing. So in a democracy, the people are actually completely powerless. You have not become powerless. You are now seeing that you are powerless, but you were always powerless. Okay. Um yeah, it is what it is. Um, Sarak says, Sarak Pande says, "Is the world moving towards a Christian Islamic war?" No. Nope. Nope. Agniv says, "If we are a US vas, should we buy the F-35?" Yeah. Yeah. Please go ahead and buy that. The US would make some good money and you will acquire a fancy toy that does nothing. Buy it. P. Shukla says, "Abi G, Namaste." Thank you sir. Namaste. Wikipedia is extremely anti bharat and anti- dharma anti-sanatani. Does the west have it cell where they control all the Wikipedia articles especially pages of arian picnic theory and sanskrit language. This IT cell thing is very Indian. The west doesn't have an IT cell. The west owns the platforms. Wikipedia is not an Indian platform. It's a western platform. They they own the platform itself. So they they determine what what is allowed, what's not allowed, right? Wikipedia, as I've been saying for years, you know, it is not a reliable source of information about India. It's not a reliable source of information period for anything. But especially when it comes to India, it's very strongly biased against India, against uh Dharma and so on. That's the case. It's been the case since the very beginning. So the west owns and operates these platforms and of course there's a bunch of people who are Wikipedia uh administrators or what moderators administrators whatever it is and they kind of gatekeep Wikipedia. A bunch of these people are Pakistanis by the way. Okay. So the government of Pakistan has Pakistan has invested in these things in what you could call you know open- source cyber warfare gatekeeping Wikipedia articles and so on. The government of India has never bothered with this is called the propaganda war the narrative war. So Pakistan takes the narrative war the propaganda war seriously. They have dedicated people who work whose whose entire job is to put forth Pakistani propaganda on social media. The Chinese have millions of possibly not millions but maybe tens of thousands of of of social media warriors who are on the payroll of the government and whose job is to put forth Chinese propaganda on social media. India has no such thing. whatever pro- India uh stuff you see on social media is done by individual volunteers who are not supported by the government of India. So the government of India has just dropped the ball when it comes to propaganda and counter propaganda nothing whatsoever and that's why everything on social media and Wikipedia and so on is just openly anti-barat anti- dharma anti-harma and all of that because the government of India has just ignored it doesn't take this matter seriously at all okay sabesh pande says why does the US take help from Israel especially Israel is taking hits from Iran. US is fully capable of executing the operation on their own. The US isn't really taking help from Israel. The US is doing it on its own. But Israel also wants the operation to happen. So they're also participating and they're also very capable. You see, so it's not like if US doesn't take help from Israel, this operation will not succeed. The past several like we are in February, right? the past month and a half and even before that the Americans have been assembling a major military force in West Asia, right? They they they've sent they've had hundreds of aircraft sorties, you know, those big giant galaxy, you know, those big transport aircraft coming in, hundreds of aircraft sorties bringing in arms, ammunition, material, personnel. you have all these aircraft carrier strike groups that have come and positioned themselves in the region. Um, so the US doesn't need Israel to defeat Iran, but Israel is America's number one ally. The US offers unconditional support to Israel and Israel sees Iran, the regime of the Ayatollas, as an existential threat. And that's why they want to to affect a regime change in Iran. So you have a situation where the interests of both countries, the US and Israel are completely in convergence. So why will they not cooperate? They'll work together from when it comes to this matter. Uh Israel will take some hits. In a war, you take hits. What do you expect when there is a war? Do you expect a war in which your soldiers won't die? your ships won't be shot down where missiles will not fall on your cities where your aircraft will not be shot down. There is no war in which you don't take casualties. So in in countries like India, Indians expect that you know you will have a war and fight a war in which no aircraft will be shot down, no Indian soldier will die. We will win without taking a single casualty. That's what Indians actually seem to imagine. That's not how it works. Trump said in his speech today that the US will take casualties. That's what happens, right? So both nations their their interests align perfectly and that's why they're working together. Teen talks says Shivaji's situation was also hopeless but he turned the tide. Boo's situation was also like that but he prevailed. I have faith in Bharata spirit. So, Chhatrapati Shishwaji Maharaj is the founder of the Marata Empire. But during his lifetime, the Marata Empire was that much or maybe this much. It was the great work he started was take was carried forward by people in the empire, Marata Empire after the death of Chhatraat Maharaj. and see when does when did Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj pass away? Let's see. Okay. Chhatraati Shivaji Maharaj. Um he passed away in um 1680. Okay. Now let's see this. 1680 he passes away. Maratha Empire. Okay. The high tide of the Marata Empire 1759. So it's 80 years after the death of Chhatraati Shivaji Maharaj that the Marata Empire had essentially liberated India much of India. 80 years it took 80 years for this to happen. Do you understand? Chhatraati Shivaji did not turn the tide in two weeks. It took 80 years. Do Indians have the patience to wait 80 years. Do you have the patience to wait 80 years? Bose's situation was like that but it prevailed. Excuse me. Where did Bose prevail? Where did Subasandra Bose prevail? Subashandra Bose failed in ach to achieve what he wanted to achieve. He wanted to liberate India from the British militarily through military force. He wanted to gain Indian independence on India's terms. What we got was a transfer of power from one set of crooks to another set of crooks. In 1947 on British terms, India was never liberated. India remained colonized. India is even more colonized today. Bose failed. He was the last great patriot we had. He failed. And he had to hide the rest of his life until he died in 1985. You think he prevailed? He did not prevail. Unfortunately, if he had prevailed, India would not be where it is today, right? He wanted dictatorship for 20 years. Did we get that? He failed. Please let us not lie to ourselves. Right? Then when Chhatrapati Shivaji died, Orurange was still alive and Orurange ruled much of the subcontinent. Let me show you. Um, okay. Muggal Empire. Okay. So, Orurange dies in 1707. 1707. This is the Muggal Empire. So do you think it was all nice for India when when Chhatraat Shivaji died? No. It was still a terrible time for India. But in 80 years we turned the tide. Do we have do you people have the patience to wait 80 years? That's the question. So when you are in a bad situation, it takes decades, maybe centuries to change things. The Spaniards when they reconquered their land their their country from the Arabs and the Moors that process took 800 years the reconista. So yeah I also have faith in the Bharata spirit but I don't see things changing in the next two weeks. It's going to take decades if not centuries for things to change. All right, just being realistic here. Be realistic. Dark side of the moon says, "This day was always coming. History repeats. We as a civilization fell at the cost of incompetent elites. That personal ambition who put personal ambition ahead of collective prosperity." Well, most people are mediocre. You see, most people are mediocre. And when you have a system that that prioritizes mediocrity then this situation happens in the Indian system whether it's the education system or the whatever the overall Indian system the setup the governance setup and everything what do they distrust the most patriotism and talent they distrust that the education system seeks out talent and destroys it and the education system promotes mediocrity. It loves that and the rest of the Indian system is the same thing. So when you have a system that promotes mediocrity, hates talent, hates patriotism, then what kind of elite are you going to have? Ask yourselves. So if you want India to be a great nation again, we're going to have to do something about the system. The system will have to be reformed. Without that it's guaranteed that India will go backwards be juices. Do you think India is putting on a mask for the US? Well, tell me something. Have we allowed the entire nation to be penetrated and infil in infiltrated with American technology? Yeah. No. Do you have government officials who use Gmail for official work? Yeah, maybe some things have changed but a lot of things have not changed. Do you have government officials from top to bottom who have family members who are citizens of foreign countries, US, UK, etc.? Yes. Do you think this is putting on a mask? No. This is taking off all the clothes. The Chinese call such officials naked officials. It is not putting on a mask. It is taking off all your clothes. Financial adviser says is this the right time for India to free is it the right time for India to free Baljasthan next part of Bangladesh important for national interest. Yeah. What about PK? You should have asked that also right? See India is not getting getting Balojasthan anytime soon. India is not freeing Balojasthan anytime soon. Bangladesh nothing is going to happen. Forget about taking part of Bangladesh. We are losing Manipur. We are losing whatever else um if India gets P or whatever it will only happen if the Americans permit that to happen if they give us a go at take a jaw do it take it otherwise nothing is happening nothing okay says who in the deep state takes the call on attacking Iran how much of this is actually is Trump Trump's decision no I I will not venture and and put forth any theories about that because I don't know right obviously look first of all we don't know who is in the deep state the deep state seems to exist but who is the deep state who are its members do we know obviously we don't I at least don't know nothing I know nothing I can tell you that the deep state does exist that is true so the American entrepreneur of Sri Lankan origin Chamat Palihapitia he once said that there's 150 men who rule the world, who decide what happens and control everything. He said it's 150 and he said it's men, no women. So that apparently is the deep state. The people who actually run the world. So who takes the call? I don't. How much of this is actually Trump's decision? But Trump, I would say 50% at least is Trump's decision. See, let's understand Trump's interest and rule in all of this. Trump is a super egotistical person. He wants to be remembered in history as the greatest American president, greater than Washington, greater than Abraham Lincoln, the greatest president of the US. That's what he wants to be to be remembered for. And great American presidents do war. That's the nature of the US. That's the kind of empire the US is. So Trump wants to be remembered as a as the greatest president, a president who won so much that people got tired of winning. So he this would be great for Trump, right? If changing the regime in Iran and winning a war in Iran, something presidents for the past 45 years have not been able to do, he'll do it. So at least 50% of this was Trump's decision. And Trump is completely aligned with the deep state. He has kissed the ring. There's a lot of ring kissing happening these days, isn't it? So, he has kissed the ring and definitely he'll be 100% on board with the decision. But who takes these calls, I can't say. Short Story Studios says, "Longtime follower." Thank you very much, sir. Thank you indeed. I was on my way to from Germany to India with Etihad Leor in Abu Dhabi. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Before my second flight, I got a missile warning. Was scary. stuck here trying to help people here. Well, the good thing is that being stuck in Abu Dhabi is not necessarily a bad thing. It's a pretty good place to be in. Uh you may have to be given a transit visa or whatever, but that's fine. You not your fault what's happened. So, there was a missile strike in Abu Dhabi today. At least one person has sadly lo lost their life. That's what I've heard. I haven't seen the latest. Um so, you had an Ethi layover. Okay. So you have will have a transit visa or whatever whatever way it works at the other layover. Um and I suppose if you have certain visas on your passport then you don't need a visa for the UE and so on. Yeah. So before your second flight you got the missile warning. Yeah. Which happened in the afternoon I suppose for afternoon India time. Morning UAE time. So you're currently stuck there trying to help people there. Yeah. Do you It's okay. I I I am pretty hopeful this will not last very long. Yeah. Just take care of yourself. be stay safe uh follow the government uh instructions the government there and yeah help out whoever you can all right sir all the best take care stay safe and uh looking forward to to have you back in India soon thank you the Praep Kumar says once Iran's military capability is degraded sufficiently whence do you think the US will launch its land forces to capture the Iran that's a great question let's take a look at the geography of Iran to try and guess what could happen. Let me uh launch the map. Here is the map. Now, cafe. So, we have Iran here. The question is once Iran's military capability is degraded sufficiently from where does the US launch its land forces to capture Thran? So I'll tell you what, Iraq is a nation that is essentially under US control and occupation. The US has withdrawn to a large extent from Iran, from Iraq, but it still has forces in Iraq. So it could happen from Iraq. One possible candidate is Iraq. Another possible candidate is Turkey. Turkey is a NATO member. The US could possibly be quietly, you know, setting up, you know, a military post posture just west of the Iran border. That's possible. Turkey is possible. Iraq is is a possibility. Another possibility is Pakistan because Pakistan is a US vasal. You could have perhaps even Pakistani forces going into Iran on behalf of the US. That's also a possibility. Turkmanistan maybe not that likely. Azarbaan probably not that likely. Turkey is a great possibility, very strong possible candidate. Iraq is a is a big candidate. Pakistan is a very strong candidate for that. Uh you could also have you know this happening from Iranian ports. Maybe Bundar Abas u maybe Bushahar. You have the port of Bushahar here right that's a major Iranian port. Another port is major port is Bundar Abbas. So if the Americans can sufficiently degrade the Iranian naval and military capabilities, they could even launch incursions into Iran from the ports of Iran. So the ports is possibility is a is a possibility whether it is Busher or Bundarbas or wherever else. Uh using Pakistani territory to to enter Iran is a possibility including with Pakistani troops. uh Iraq is a possibility and Turkey is a possibility and they could also send in paratroopers or whatever to do temporary work. So the Americans have multiple options. Yeah. Of how to uh put boots on the ground to set boots on the ground in Iran. Okay. Really now M Patel says so our non- selected system is a huge termite eating us from inside while the elected one is unwilling to cure or perhaps incapable of curing that or enforcing reforms with an iron fist essentially correct what you're saying what you're saying Mr. Essentially what you're saying is is accurate India also has a deep state the unelected establishment and maybe key people within that possibly and if the system serves you why would you want the system to be changed why would you want reforms you don't want reforms right so it's kind of a parasitical organism that prevents a reform and and and acts as a rent seeker. Um and whoever is elected even if they try they won't be allowed to change anything and eventually they will give up I suppose. So yeah so to transform India to reform India is is really really difficult really difficult because the system is so vast and so many people benefit from it. and they control all the levels of power. That is the situation. So, Miss Patel, whatever Miss Patel is saying here is pretty much accurate. Vihung Kuran says, "How are you?" I'm good, sir. How are you? How can India leverage its farmer industry prowess in general considering India's significant pharma exports to the US and many other countries? See, India exports a lot of pharma products to the US. Maybe about 50% of the American gen generic drug imports probably come from Indian from India. Let's let's let's uh fact check that. Let's fact check that, shall we? Before before we actually address the question. So the question is what percentage Okay, it's not working. Okay. Uh what percentage of US generic drugs are imported from India? There we have it. 40 to 50%. India supplies approximately 40 to 50% of the gen of of all generic drugs consumed in the US la yeah so about 50% possibly yeah so does it mean India has leverage over the US it doesn't mean anything leverage works only if you have other forms of leverage that work together so let's say you are very militarily powerful then you can make this leverage this kind of leverage count but if you are militarily weak and economically weak then even If you have this leverage, you can't do much with it. Because if you try to use this leverage, then the more powerful nation will will squash you like a bug. Yeah. So if you are a weaker nation, even if you are supplying critical things to to the more powerful nation, you can't use that as leverage. There are many countries that supply things to the US, right? For example, the Dutch uh company ASML, it is it controls about 95% of the photo lithography market in the world. Do you think they can arm twist the US using that? They'll be squashed like a bug if they try that. So, if you are a weak nation that is a node in the supply chains of a powerful nation, you can't leverage that because you're weak. You can't. If you try to play some some of these games, you're going to pay a very big price for that. Uh so yeah so India can't really leverage these things in all India can do with it is to earn some cash which it does every year right it's one of the one of the cash generating mechanisms India has it's it's pharma exports but without hard power none of this translates into actual leverage inferno number one says we must seek help from superpower Nepal to aid us. Maybe we should. Maybe we should. Yeah. Vic Post says, Vic Post says, "My cousin was rescued in Dubai by the Indian embassy by a naval ship after Iran retaliated. Will this escalate? I feel Israelis are extremists." Um, well, I'm first of all, I'm glad that your cousin is safe. The government of India does a tremendous job of keeping its our citizens safe. Even in in situations like these when there's a war going on. So great job government of India and I'm glad your cousin is safe. He or she is safe. Um will this escalate? Yes, this was this will escalate. See the war has just started. Trump has made it very clear in his address in his address in his post on Twitter that he seeks a complete change regime change in Iran. This will end with a regime change in in Iran. Israel's Prime Minister Finan Yahuji also has put out a Twitter post in which he also has made the same statement that this will end with a regime change in in Iran. So this is just the early early exchanges in the war. There's going to be much more. This is going to escalate significantly. I expect unfortunately way more of this to happen. And I wonder what's happening right now in real time. But okay, we're not looking at that right now. So this will escalate definitely way more than than what you are seeing right now. You feel Israelis are extremists. Well, I I don't see it quite that way. See, Iran has been saying since 1979 that Israel does not have a right to exist. So what do you expect Israel's response to be to that? Israel will say we have a right to exist and if you seek to destroy us we're going to destroy you I mean yeah so I don't see it that way chai says if we become vasal can we become like Japan or Europe no we don't have the standards of Japan and Europe see in Japan in Japan even after the destruction of Japan by the Americans in the two atomic tests over Japan the people of Japan already had those standards Why did the people of Japan have high standards that they maintained even after the American occupation in 1945? Because from the mid 1850s onwards the entire Japanese education system was reformed and Japan it it brought Japan's standards to a incredible degree of excellence scientific and technological excellence and they all always had this this culture of excellence because they were not under foreign occupation before that. So Japan's people were very high quality people. Okay. Japan had a very high quality population with great standards because of a very high quality education system. So after Japan became a vasal, the Americans allowed Japan to rise on its feet again and Japan became the most technologically advanced nation in the world because the people were genuinely educated. Not book education but they had the skills and they had the standards. That's why Japan became one of the most excellent countries in the world. Europe once again they had a great education system and a very highly qualifi not qualified very high quality population. India has one of the worst education systems in the world and the people of India don't even know how to think clearly. So if we become a vasal we're going to become a lowquality vasal. We will not become like Japan or Europe. We won't be allowed to. Financial adviser says met an Israeli today. He was stranded in India with his family in Israel. He was stranded in India and his family is in Israel. Okay. He was cursing the US saying bad thing. All bad things on in the world are the doing of the United States. Well, you see in any country you will have people of who have all kinds of different opinions. Some people if they are individually personally going through some inconvenience they will blame the government or they blame the US or whatever. I would say most Israelis support the US because the US unconditionally supports Israel. So that's normal that you will find people with who have all kinds of different opinions in any country. Sumesh Pandya says what kind of vasalhood India gets. So if India becomes a vasal country what kind of vasalhood does India get is the question. Um India will get some benefits. India will be able to buy oil from Iran. India will get even more benefits of American technology. In Indians will find it somewhat easier to travel to the US. Maybe the US will still still allow high quality Indians to move to the US because the US needs talent and so on. Um apart from that, India will see no reforms. India's education system will not be reformed. India's bureaucracy and other institutions will never be reformed. India's GDP growth will remain 67%. India will remain dependent on other countries for arms imports. India will never become a manufacturing power but India will remain IT power services exporter. India will become a big market that the west exports to. That's kind of the solid you'll get and mediocre little nation. Kunal Desai. Thank you very much sir. Thank you sir. McLeivven says will we lose lose nukes and dharma under Vasalhood we will be allowed to keep our nukes yeah but we will never use them dharma will be wiped out over time maybe 50 years maybe 100 years we'll lose it all says I am a first year mechanical engineering student I was thinking okay I'm not taking um I'm not taking these questions today we are discussing war we're discussing Iran we discussing geopolitics I I anyway I'm not the right kind of person to ask answer these questions I don't know about finance and all that I don't know says reports say Chinese satellites helped Iran bomb a base it's possible that that kind of help China will be happy to give Iran so China will not get involved militarily in this conflict but they will give some intelligence and that that sort of aid to Iran possibly. Yeah, the Chinese have been putting out. Give me a second. Let me let's let's find this. Give me a second. Um right. So let us see. There's this Chinese account, okay, on on on on Twitter on X and they have been putting out this stuff on Twitter. So, take a look. It's called Mizar Vision. And there we have it. They putting out realtime satellite imagery about what is happening. Satellite images show thick smoke billowing from the Iranian port of Karak, which was attacked by the US and Israel. Oh, well, when did that happen? Looks like it's a more recent event. Okay. Okay. Okay. We are seeing thick smoke blowing out because you can see the shadow of the smoke. Actually, can you see over here? If you can see my mouse pointer, you can see that. So, and what is this? Higher resolution satellite imagery shows multiple US KC35 refueling aircraft deployed at Bengurian airport in Israel. Right. Right. So they are putting out all of this information and they will be passing on more such information to Iran. U maybe better information to Iran. Uh okay. Establish refueling positions. So the military operation is very much underway. Very much underway. Israeli refueling aircraft also took off from their home territory and established refueling positions in the Mediterranean. Right. So you can see this satellite data coming in from these Chinese sources. High resolution satellite images captured damage to buildings in Iran, the Iranian capital following attacks by the US and Israel. You can see that there is damage to buildings in Iran. Do we have something else of note? Um, okay. US Gerald Ford aircraft carrier in the Mediterranean Sea. So the Chinese have been supplying have been putting out this this satellite imagery in the public domain and I suppose they are also supplying that to Iran maybe maybe higher quality satellite uh intelligence maybe they may be supplying it to Iran okay says what can we learn from China and Xiinping the Chinese approach to geopolitics is completely different from India India's approach they have ended whatever penetration American technology had in China completely. They have cordoned off the internet. They have the great firewall of China. They don't allow any American um platform to operate in China or to provide services to Chinese citizens. They don't allow any officials to be in power in high positions who are compromised in any way potentially potentially by the Americans of the West. For example, people who have family family members living in the US, children studying in the US, they're not allowed to be in high positions. The Chinese approach is completely completely different, diametrically opposite compared to the Indian approach. All those things I suppose we can learn from China if we still want to learn something. Right? Teen Talk says, will the US deploy boots on the ground in Iran? The last time it was a disaster, Operation Eagle Claw or any other nation's military will be used. The last time it they attempted to do this in a clandestine manner, quietly. This is an open war. It will culminate with the deployment of US boats on the ground in Iran. This is the guarantee if if the Americans succeed in this and they win the war. The US doesn't lose wars, right? and they lo they they lost Vietnam but there was a there was a there was last century um they are determined the Americans to do a regime change in Iran and most likely they will succeed. I I don't see Iran having too much of a chance against the US. So the US will definitely deploy some boats on the ground in Iran and like I discussed a while ago if we once again go to the map it's possible Turkish boots could be on the ground. It's possible Pakistani boots could be on the ground in Iran. Maybe even Israeli boots, maybe even boots from Arabic countries. The Americans would like to make it look like a multil multinational effort, right? So, it's possible. It's possible. Dur Durji says, "Namaste from Nagaland. Loving this episode. Thank you very much and namaste G. Namaste to you and namaste to everybody in Nagaland. And thank you so much for for commenting and and being a viewer. Thank you so much, sir. Summerr Slider says in 20 to 30 years as the older generation fades an 80year-old would be born in 1976 as hence as the orthodox die India rises. Does this make sense or not? So for a for a culture for a civilization for a n or a nation to to rise you need the death of orthodoxy. Is that what you're saying? I was born in 1976. Am I one of the orthod one of the do I represent the orthodoxy of India? I don't know. I don't know. In any nation, you need all kinds of people. You need some who are orthodox. You need someone who are liberal. You need someone some people. So, you need you need a bunch of people who are orthodox. You need a bunch of people who are liberal. You need a bunch of people who are whatever. In any population, you you're going to have a natural and harmonious balance of different kinds of people. You need them all. You need them all. Why do we need the orthodox to die away? I don't see myself as orthodox, first of all, but you seem to be implying that somebody who was born in 76 is going to be naturally orthodox, which I would not agree with. Right. Um and if all the orthodox die then the nation becomes unorthodox then we rise. No that that's not how it works. Yeah. Um India India is not known to rise this by by it's like saying kill kill off a certain section of society then everything is fine. That seems to be a lot of the thinking in India today right? that that that's not how it's going to be. Sir D with Pregosian says what about Iran's nukes? Don't they have nukes? I don't know if they have nukes. If they have nukes, then if they do have nukes and if they're at some point in this war going to go down, I have a very very bad feeling about that. I have the feeling that if Iran does have nukes then at some point in this in this war they may be they may be used. Yeah, that's a bad feeling I have. So yeah, I obviously am not in favor of any nuclear weapons ever being used. Yeah, but if Iran has nukes then they may use it before they go down. Ankur Das says India I think most competitive exams are BS just to reduce competition. these competitive exams and all that they are a waste of everyone's time and life and energy and years that's not yeah it's a it's a rotten system India has rotten um praradana says this is last pro-Israel US population new generation Americans are indifferent and even hate that Israel has so much influence in decision-m in the US uh you know what you are you may be right about Um, you may be right. You are definitely right about the new generation Americans being either indifferent or negatively inclined towards Israel. A lot of these new generation Americans kind of are not so favorably inclined towards Israel. Um, you're right about that. Uh, but will it make much of a difference in the relationship between between the two countries? Maybe not. Maybe not. But yes, what you are saying overall is correct on the ground over the over the years over the decades the the population the attitudes and worldviews of the people of America have changed gradually. See, 1950s, 1960s, you saw this the the takeover of American academia and education by the left. And over time, they have, you could say, indoctrinated newer student, newer generations of Americans into their leftist worldview, leftist ideology. And uh that is very much the norm in in in American campuses today. So a lot of new a lot of younger Americans are negatively predisposed towards Israel. That's true. Yes. Mystic comrade says is it possible that the Indian is it possible that the Indian may have given some hints about this operation during his Israel visit? What are you asking sir? Is it possible that the Indian may have given some hints about this operation during his Israel visit? Are you talking about Prime Minister Modi and his Israel visit? Because I don't know what the Indian is. U if you ask him about Prime Minister Modi whether he would have been told about the operation during his visit. Yes, most likely yes. Angal says who is the most calculative leader in the world rather more angry like Kim Jong and Trump? I think it's Putin and our airspace closed cuz my mom is in Canada. What's a calcul? Every leader makes calculations. Every leader leader does that. Um maybe the the the word you've used is not the most appropriate word. Maybe are you saying who's the shrewdest leader? Putin could be one of them possibly. Yeah. Okay. Is the airspace closed? My mom is in Canada. Let's find out together shall we? Uh let's find out about the airspace. All right, give me a second. Let me put that on the screen and let's find out together what is happening from an airspace perspective. Okay, let's zoom out. Let us zoom out. Uh right. Okay. So you can see that the airspace over Iran is definitely more or less closed, right? As you can see, the airspace over Iran seems to be closed. There's nobody flying over Iran. At least no civilian aircraft are flying over Iran. You have a few aircraft in Afghanistan. You have a few aircraft in Pakistan. And nothing over Iraq, nothing over Kuwait, nothing over Iran. Even Syria, there's almost nothing. What about Israel? Let's see. Yeah, not much happening over Israel either. Sorry, that's Lebanon. Uh, not much happening over Israel either. Uh, yeah. So, the airspace is closed, but if you are traveling from Canada to India, you could certainly make your way to India. No problem there. What about the UAE? Is anybody flying in the UAE right now? Let me see. Doha to somewhere. Okay, this is U Katar Airways. Who is this? Yeah, looks like there's not much activity happening over the UAE either. So definitely the air airspace is is closed over Iran. But if you are in Canada, you want to visit India, you can certainly fly to India. That's not going to be an issue. You may have to avoid that airspace and avoid certain countries. But yeah, it'll work. Okay. Aman Kumar Dhankar says how Jews went so powerful in very short period of time. I don't know you know they are very well organized people. Yeah. And they understand power. I suppose that's why they're very powerful. Abishek says can you explain why you say people in India don't have power in democracy as in why is voting power not enough? also if not democracy what are the pros and cons of a benevolent monarchy in India okay listen we'll not go too deep into this stuff but I'll tell you what why do I say that people in India don't have much power in democracy why is voting power not enough so let me give you an example let's say you have a government that you voted to power you voted for them they came to power five years they did nothing for you they they did not do any of the things they promised let's say you voted for them because because the election manifesto promised these these these things and you you wanted that to happen. So you voted for them. But five years they did nothing. But maybe you said, you know what, they've just come to power. Give them some more time. So you voted for them again. So now now five more years they're in power. They still do nothing. So 10 years of your life you wasted voting for them, but they didn't do anything you wanted because once you vote and you see that nothing is happening, you have to wait 5 years. So let's say you waited 10 years of your life. Then you said, "Okay, I'm going to throw them out of power. I'm going to vote for the other guy, the other party." So you vote for the other party this time. And maybe this time they come to power. But let's say they also do nothing. Then what power do you have? What power do you have? Yeah. The only power, the only agency you have is voting. But that guarantees nothing for you. You're powerless. You're utterly powerless. Pros and cons of monarchy. We will not go into that right now. I've spoken about that for hours. Right? A benevalent monarchy. I'll just give you examples of bene benevolent monarchs. Chhatraati Shivaji Maharaj, the Marata Empire, the Chola Empire, the Gupta Empire, Rajendra Chula, Rajar Chula, Scandanda Gupta, Kumar Gupta, Samudra Gupta. Weren't they not were they great for India or not? Kaneshka Kaneshka the great right Chandra Gupta Moria who was Lord Ram was he not a monarch who was Shri Krishna was he not a monarch that's enough examples that that should hopefully give you the point okay uh Kshai Surya says going abroad isn't great but is it lesser evil go abroad who's saying it's not good individuals should take care of their own decisions indiv individually, right? There's nothing wrong with you going abroad. Yeah. Nothing wrong with it. Um, Sid says, "Don't you think India has more problems internally than externally?" I think so. Yes. Yes. Okay. Deepak dating coach. Deepak dating coach. Okay. I'm a longtime viewer of watcher of your videos. Thank you so much, sir. Thank you indeed. A few years ago you were quite positive about India's progress but now your tone is quite pessimistic. I do agree with you actually love to invite you on my channel for a podcast in the future. Well, you see as times change, you have to change the way you look at. You see what I do is I analyze what's happening and I analyze the direction in which the world is going, the country is going. When things change, I have to be truthful to my audience, right? Or should I just keep pretending that you know what, everything is great, everything is fine. There's there's plenty of people who do that on YouTube, right? But that's not me. I'm going to be truthful to you all as things change. I'm going to tell you what's actually happening the way I see it. Now, it's up to you whether you want to agree or not with me. But, uh, things have changed over the past few years. See, I first became a came on YouTube in what 2021? I think 2020, but I started doing the ask show in 2021 and things were different at that time. And things have changed since then. So if things are changing, you will see that reflected in the way I analyze things. Um yeah, things have changed a lot. But you agree but you actually agree with me. Well, I'm glad you do, sir. Thank you. All right. If you want me on your channel, I I can certainly consider that. Please send me an email or something. Uh my email ID will be there in the description below. You can check it out. All right. So sir, thank you so much. Debaki past snail says is Russia pausing Ukraine supporting India a poss Iran a possibility well theoretically it's a possibility but if if Russia pauses Ukraine then obviously they may face the possibility that Ukraine may make some advances and some gains in the territorial gains or whatever right but if you don't want to to allow Ukraine to make territorial gains then you have to keep your forces on the ground. Not just keep your force on the ground, you have to keep on doing whatever you were doing. So Russia pausing Ukraine means no means nothing. Even if you want to pause the war, you have to keep your troops on the ground, right? You can't withdraw your troops and say, you know what, Ukraine, let's give it a break of two two months. We're going to move out. You stay where you are. You don't take any ter any territory and we'll be back in two months and we'll resume fighting. Does it work like that? It doesn't work like that. Right? So, as long as even if you want to freeze the the the conflict in Ukraine, you have to maintain your force posture there. You have to maintain your full military strength there. Even if you want to freeze the conflict and not have any going back territorially, you still have to keep your entire military posture intact. Right? So if Russia wants to support Iran, it will have to fight two wars at the same time. Yeah, two wars at the same time. Rajan Beir says, "Is Muslim unity in this war possible or not?" I don't really know what you're asking. Muslim unity. If there was Muslim unity in the world, would you not have a single Islamic nation? Right. So yeah um I'm not exactly sure what you're asking but Muslim I don't know if it even exists. Yeah. Sergeant Skylin says this attack explains why India let go of Chabahar. So are you saying India was aware of it? Are you saying India was aware that this attack would happen? Yeah. Okay. Adit Chandra says, "Is the combined military power of Russia and China even a match for the US?" No. No. No. It's not. It's not. Even if Russia and China come together to fight the US, they will still get whacked. They'll still lose. That's how powerful the US is. Okay. Um, as long as you keep the mil the nuclear factor out of the picture from a nuclear perspective, Russia is more powerful than the US from from a nuclear warheads strength perspective. But yeah, if you disregard the nuclear angle, the nuclear factor, then Russia plus China together, even if they're combined, they are not strong enough to match the US. Now, is Prime Minister Modi's timing of his visit to Israel coincidental or does it have anything to do with the attacks on Iran? It's not coincidental, but it is not as such linked to the attacks in Iran in the sense that India had something to do with it. No, but it's all part of the larger scheme of things and the realignment that's happening in the world. It's very much part of the realignment that's happening in the world. But it is not related to the attack on Iran in the sense that India had something to do with India has nothing to do with it. India is simply essentially a nation that has to accept what the more powerful nations are doing. And the only choice India has is do we stay out of it or do we support them or do we oppose them? India essentially stays out of it and you have to eventually pick a side if you're weak and that's what India seems to be doing now. So India doesn't have anything to do with the attacks on Iran but India most likely would have known that this was going to happen India most likely would also have known when it was going to happen. Shriikand go says since India stopped Chabahar funding don't you think it's a minor step toward towards vasalage? All these small small steps they are all minor steps towards vasaj but if all if you have a lot of minor steps towards varaj happening together it's concerning don't you think h it's a pattern then vdan vive says hexagonal alliance so India plus UAE plus Saudi plus Qatar yeah Israel said something about a hexagonal alliance so who could those nations See India and Israel are together even before all the vasalad stories started. India, UAE and and Israel are involved in a parallel competition with Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and Turkey. Okay. So Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Turkey are on one side in West Asia and opposing in an on the opposing side you have Israel, UAE and India. So in a hexagonal alliance, Saudi Arabia won't be there. Qatar could be there because Qatar because Qatar is Qatar. So who could the hexagonal alliance be? Israel, India, UAE, US, that's four. If if Qatar is there, that's five. Maybe Oman. I don't know. I don't know. I'm not sure exactly who the hexagon who the different sides of this polygon are, but Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Now, before I take other questions, let's quickly scan Twitter and see what's happening. Let's see what's happening, shall we? Um let's let me put this on the screen so that we look at this together and let's take a look at what is happening right now. Let's first look at the India thing. India's ministry of external affairs. Let's see what India has to say. 5 hours ago we posted something. 1 hour ago. Okay. Our statement of the evolving situation in West Asia. Let's see what India's what stance India is taking. India is deeply concerned at the recent developments in Iran and the Gulf region. We urge all sides to exercise restraint, avoid escalation and prioritize the safety of citizens. Dialogue in diplomacy blah blah blah blah blah. Dialogue and diplomacy should be pursued to deescalate tensions and address underlying issues. sovereignty in terms in the region are in touch with Indian nationals and have issued appropriate advisories asking them to blah blah blah blah blah okay so India has nothing to actually say in this India is saying that everybody please deescalate don't fight be good boys which means India doesn't really matter in this matter okay India is deeply concerned are you doing something about that no we are issuing a statement okay has Netanyahu said something let's find out Has there been some further news from Netanyahu? No. His last statement was 6 hours ago. Has the Department of War said something? Let's see. Let's refresh the page. Okay, let's refresh. Refresh. Refresh. Let's Okay, let's remove this. Let's refresh. Okay, they have said nothing since they said this. Operation Epic Fury. Operation Epic Fury. Now, that's what colle what I call a distraction from the Epstein files. I'm attacking Iran because they have nuclear weapons. Why don't you attack Russia? Are you crazy? They have nuclear weapons. Oh, I love it. Very funny. Okay. Okay. Okay. All right. Yeah. So, there's a lot of skepticism from the people, but yeah. Uh the department of war of war of the US has not tweeted anything since then 6 hours ago as Shri Trump's Trump tweeted something. Let's see. Even his last tweet was from 7 hours ago about the the war. Okay. What does this account have to say? Anything interesting? Anything uh that gives us updates? Okay. Breaking. Iran says Supreme Leader Kame will give a speech just hours after the US and Israel targeted him in assassination attempts. Just one hour ago, Israeli media said that the odds survived the strikes are slim to none. The world now awaits the supposed speech. Okay, let's see. So, Israel seems to be claiming that KA may not have survived their strikes. Iran issues a response to the US and Israeli strikes offering terms for potential deescalation. One, Iran does not have missiles targeting capable of targeting the US, reaching the US. Iran will not develop missiles capable of reaching the US. Iran will not give up the right to enrich uranium. Iran is interested in deescalation. China and Russia request meeting of the UN Security Council on Iran. Iran says if the US wants to talk, they will know how to reach out. Um, it may be a little late for all that. Okay. What else is there? Uh, Iran's foreign minister comments on US and Israeli strikes getting Supreme Leader Kam. He's alive as far as I know. Iran may have lost a few commanders, but that's not a very big problem. Iran's defense minister and a commander of the Iranian revolutionary revolutionary guard have been killed by strikes in Iran. Who's Iran's defense minister? Let us see who is Iran's defense minister Aziz Nazir Zad. Okay. Um okay. So this is what this account is saying. What else do we have? Do we have anything here? Not sure. Right. So Iran has not hit Israel yet. They sent very few missiles. It seems the focus is on the American radars in their bases in Gulf countries. Iran wants to blind the US first. They started this process last time with the strike on Alud. That's why Iran hit Gulf countries first more heavily. The strikes were on satellite and communications installations and so on. Okay. So, is there anything else happening? UAE. Okay. The UAE has put out a statement. The Ministry of Defense announced that the UA today was subjected to blatant attack involving Iran ballistic missiles and so on. Okay. Yeah. So, the war is there. Allout war. Do we have something in Thran? Any more any news? Um, don't know what that is. We saw flight radar. That's fine. What's the latest? What's the latest? Let's see. Um, okay. Second rocket hit Dubai. Really? A rocket hit hit Dubai, apparently? I mean, that's what someone's claiming over here. Okay. So, what is this? This is in Turkish. And there's what not going on. Iran starts targeting US air bases. Where is this? I'm not playing the video here but okay and so on. Nothing. So we don't know anything. Okay. So uh that's kind of the latest situation. Um no major uptick in the war but yeah let's let's keep an eye on that. Okay. What's next? Yeah I dealt with this question. Yes. Uh what is next? Uh Kajor Betaththon says, "Did not you predicted Christian Iran. He also made the much crazier prediction of a Jewish Saudi and Hindu UAE by 2040." You mean okay idea of soldiers wear greater Israel patches with Saudi in it. Saudi is liberalizing Black Rockck by um Okay. I do expect that if the US wins and does a regime change in Iran, the future of Iran is most likely Christian. That's how I see it. Jewish Saudi Arabia, Hindu UAE. Well, if you look at the UAE, realistically about 40% or so of the UAE population is Hindu. But that's not UAE citizens. That's the population. The UAE does not give citizenship. They give you long-term visas, right? 10 year visas or whatever uh if you want to reside there but they don't give you citizenship. So you may have 40% of the population being Hindu but they are not citizens. So um Hindu UAE well it's not entirely impossible but uh okay uh Jewish Saudi Arabia I don't see that happening by 20 by 2040 Jewish Saudi Arabia. Okay that's interesting. Anyhow, okay. Uh, IDF soldiers wear greater Israel patches with Saudi in it. Okay. I I didn't know that. Okay. Deep learner says, "Do you think it's a sign? Do you think a sign of this development vasilization is USA will push will try to push alternative leaders India inside BJP against Yogi? I I will not comment about Indian politics. I never do that. So yeah. Um but yeah theoretically when you are vasalized see what happens when you're a vasal country when you are a vasal state the overlord the master re-engineers your internal system such that you can never produce real leaders. If a real leader is produced by mistake that's it's a mistake it's an accident. But they will re-engineer the system such that you will never produce real leaders. You will produce people who look like leaders, who speak like like leaders but who serve the foreign overlord. Okay? No real person of substance will be allowed to become a leader. They will only allow people to rise to leadership positions who are compromised. That's what typically happens theoretically when you have a state that is a vasal state and is serving a master state. That's what happens. I mean look at the leaders in Europe all they do is talk allegedly many of them maybe allegedly possibly compromised in some ways and yeah so theoretically that that's how it works says why wasn't Japan crushed even after wasalhood what did they suffer from a common man's perspective apart from military bases and the constitution being written by the US they resisted Christianization as well great questions great questions because that allows me to explain how this works. Japan was not crushed after Vasalud. Japan in 1945 came under permanent US military occupation. But after that happened, Japan was allowed to rise again. See in 1945 when the Americans took over Japan, Japan was a bunch of smoldering ruins. Two cities were full of radiation from nuclear tests and all the industries were destroyed. Cities were flattened. Japan was destroyed in 1945 when the Americans took over. But by the 1960s, Japan was on its feet. Japan was becoming a technological powerhouse again. Japan. So Japan was not crashed. Japan was allowed to rise. Japan's industries were allowed to rise. Japan was now allowed to become the most technologically advanced nation in the world. Why? Why? Because it served US interests. Okay. Who who was consuming the that technology? The US. They were consuming it from a nation they owned. So they were fine with it. And if the US wanted the technology, the Japanese had no way of saying no. So they allowed Japan to rise. They allowed the Japanese people to develop technologies, fantastic technologies. But today those technologies are all across the US. The Japanese developed the Look at this phone. It's a Look at this camera I'm using right now. the Sony camera. Sony, Honda, Yamaha, Mitsubishi, Seikko, Casio, all these fantastic techn companies developed all these fantastic technologies. But today the Americans have better technology because all the technology was never safe from the Americans. So the Japanese were allowed to rise rise rise. By the 1980s they became the second most powerful economy in the world. And then the Americans did the Plaza Accords and then Japan slowly gradually declined declined in such a way nobody noticed until now. It's only in the 2000s and 2010s that people started noticing that Japan is now going backwards. And today you have a situation in Japan where Japan is no longer a high income nation. It was one of the highest income nations in the world. Today Japan is like a middle- inome nation. That's how far Japan has declined. Japan's economy is stagnating. It's been stagnating for decades now. and Japan's TFR has been destroyed. In a 100 years, there will be no Japanese left. That's how you destroy a nation in slow motion. Yeah. And she says, "My god, it's depressing. You'll be fine. Don't worry. We'll all be fine individually. It is what it is." See, there are good times, there are bad times. You got to deal with it. Mr. Comrad says, "What will happen to the Chabahar project? Once the Americans take over the the nation of Iran, they may invite India back into Chabahar." Okay. Enjoy Chabahar. Take take a couple of terminals. Operate operate it. We'll we'll allow you go. That's what could happen to Javahar. They may allow India to operate a couple of terminals in Chabahar after they take over Iran. It's possible. Vidi Mana says good to see you ma'am. What's coming for India now? Will businesses get affected? Will businesses get affected? No. India will continue the way it is right now. India I don't see it becoming uh I'll be very surprised if it becomes a major manufacturing power like we have been sloganering for the past 10 years what's coming for for India India will in India it'll be for everybody on the streets of everybody all individual people it will be business as usual nothing much will change there'll be no major changes in India India will not become a gigantic powerful nation by 2045 2050 India will be at 10 12 trillion dollar economy possibly and um yeah it will be business as usual. India will remain what it what India is for the time being. I mean the kind of nation and India has been since 1944 47 the kind of standards we've had we're going to maintain that for the next 20 30 whatever years long-term we'll see. So nothing major no major changes are coming to India. Then our leaders will keep saying we are doing great. All right. Prataradhana says we should keep pushing for education reform and spend money on R&D. R&D spending must reach 2% of GDP. Sir immigration is becoming more difficult. Sir I agree with you but I am not in charge of this. I agree with you. I I could not disagree less. I completely agree with you. We need large scale top tobottom thorough education reforms. We need that. But the government is saying that we did the reform. The new education policy 2020 is the reform. Enjoy it. It'll be in force full force by 2030 or wherever. So in India, you do a new education policy, you bring it into being in existence in 2020 and it actually starts be becoming effective by the 2030s. That's how slow things are in India. And even that new education policy is garbage. It doesn't address any of the real underlying issues in the education system. It addresses none of those issues. So yeah, we should keep pushing for it. We should keep saying we need education reform. I agree with you. We need it. We should spend money on on R&D. I agree with that too completely. I could not disagree at all with this. R&D should be like for a nation like India should be at least 2% 3% of GDP. But who will do it? Who controls the money? Who controls the funding? The government. The private companies can also do it. But they're not doing it right. They're giving dividends to their shareholders. low enjoy enjoy the dividends they're not pushing that money back into R&D they don't do any R&D so there is this entire situation in India the standards are such that yeah they the people who are in charge don't want any change but you will say that young people want change you will say that the people the young entrepreneurs they want change if you look at the people who are running these new startups they are investing in R&D whatever little money they have. So there is this tremendous desire in India for better standards for for research and development for excellence for success. Young people they all want this. A lot of young people want this. A lot of intelligent people who are in India they want this. But but Pranjal Bishra says, "Do you think that despite all the talks about multipolarity, we are headed towards a more erup world?" How are Chinese ambitions affected? See, one thing I've been saying since 21 is ignore words and look at actions. Talk is cheap. Talk talk. Everyone will do multipolarity. Yay. This that everything that's all talk. But where is the world actually headed? The world is indeed headed towards multi towards uniolarity. The world is headed towards uniolarity. All this talk of multipolarity, multi-alignment, multipolar world. Um multipolarity is a is a is a intermediate phase. It's a metastable phase like you would say in physics and chemistry. It's a metastable phase. It's a temporary intermediate state step between uh two outcomes. So you had a uniolar world. You had a bipolar world in the 20th century, the cold war. Then the cold war ended, the USSR disintegrated. Then you had a uniolar world for about 20 years. 20 years or so. That was the American unipolar moment. Then the Chinese came up on the stage. We are now a big deal. Yeah. Yeah. We're going to be a big deal because of our economic strength. And that went on until the end of the COVID era, until the end of the Biden regime. Then with the with the with with the Americans pushing putting Trump forth, they have decided that that that signaled that they have decided to completely shake the shake the world order and show what real power is. Real power isn't me necessarily economic power. actual military power and the the ability to reshape the world order. That's what they're doing. So, we are once again going back towards uh possibly uniolarity. What what does China have that the US doesn't? Nothing. What advantages does China have? China probably is is a very advanced technological country. It's very technologically advanced now. They the Chinese probably have the best education system in the world and they are technologically almost as good as the US in some sectors at least. So the only hope China has of surviving a uniolar world is if they get ahead of the US in the key core critical technologies like um AI etc. But um that's a long shot for for China and China is is is frightened of military confrontation with the US as they rightfully should be. Yeah. So the world is most likely going towards the uni unipolar world again. The next 5 years will be the crucial years. In 5 years we'll know exactly what's going to happen in this century. The next five years are critical. Sergeant Skylan says PM Modi visited Israel recently. He might have been briefed. I am 100% sure that he was briefed. Ritik Yadwanchi says, "Hide your strength by your time is the only thing that India can do. I hope the next leadership grows a spine and makes the massive reforms we need." I hope so. I hope so. Yes, I agree with you and I hope so, sir. Indeed. P9057 S to you. Thank you sir. Thank you sir ma'am. Thank you so much. Pratarana says direct hit by a shahed drone on a US radar in Bahrain. Well I would not be surprised. Let's once again take a look at um give me a second. Let's re my only source of information right now at least is Twitter. Okay. So, we're going to keep an eye on Twitter and see what's happening there. From time to time. Yeah, here we are. Um, what do we have? What do we have? Okay, I'm not going into politics. This is Dubai allegedly right now. What's going on in Dubai? Oh no, some kind of air strike, missile strike possibly. What else do we have? Dubai once again. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well. Uh, Razabah is saying something. What is Razabah saying? Razabah, the pretender. My dear compatriots, decisive moments lie before us. The assistance that the president of the US has promised and so on is arrived. Islamic regime is republic is collapsing. You have sworn an oath to protect Iran and so on so forth. any message blah blah blah sensitive hours and days reclaiming Iran. So his ultimate goal is to reclaim Iran and follow messages and so on. Okay. Okay sir, thank you for your message. We get it. Uh what else is happening? Thran, Dubai, DHA. Um this is okay. What else do we have? What's what's look at the trending topics? Iran must be there. Bourj Khalifa, Thran, Hifa. Um, okay. You are saying this a Shahed drone on Bahrain. Let's see. Bahin. Bahrain. What happened? Iran just fired missiles at five countries. That's okay. That's We know that. Bahrain. Let's see latest. I don't see cats at this time. Um, let's see. Bahin, what's the bah bahin? Maybe that will give us some idea. Iranian shahed drone targets US radar. Yeah, it looks like that. This looks like a shahed drone. Yes. So it's flying in and then it hits. Yeah, that's a radar. Oh, well well well. Okay. In Manama in Bahrain. Okay. Well, that's the cost of war obviously. What do you expect? So this is about this happen seems to have happened very recently 5 minutes 6 minutes ago. Um this is the aftermath of that I suppose. Okay. Okay. All right. So, this is an evolving situation obviously. So, yeah. Okay. Okay. Right. Fast snail says, "Can India really say with conviction it supports Israel because regime change in Iran is not really in its best interests?" Well, of course, it's not in our interests. I've been saying that for a long time. But the Americans, if they have started the war, they will end it. They're just too powerful for Iran. Um, so what is India is not saying anything. That's the point right now. If you look at the Twitter account of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of India, they're not saying we support this or support that. They're saying this is not a time for war. We urge all sides to go and negotiate and not fight like bad boys and all. That's the sort of thing that's coming out of the Indian Ministry of External Affairs. This is Yeah. So that's that's we not saying we support Israel. We're not saying we support Iran. We're saying stop fighting. And we know no one's going to stop fighting, right? uh regime change in Iran is not in our best interests. Well, it depends. It depends. If we have decided that we will be part of the American orbit now, then it will make no difference to us whether there's a regime change in Iran or not. So, yeah. Verdan Vivik says war started at the end of US stock market closed. Oh, okay. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Sloita says, "Has India lost its sovereignty and become a vasal?" Yes/ no. Um I I I want it's it's possible that there are four vasal states in four sovereign nations in the world now. It's possible. Uh let's let's still wait and watch for a few more weeks. Yeah. Indications are India has decided is India has decided to become part of the US orbit. Indications are like that and if you are a regular watcher of the channel I've said this I've been saying this that there's a high chance that in within the next 5 years India becomes an American masal. I've said that right I've said that multiple times. Um maybe it won't take 5 years. See, I'm I'm I'm hopeful it never happens. But if you look at all the indications, it looks like India is the government of India seems to have made the decision that it is safer for us to be part of the American orbit possibly, but still not 100% guaranteed, but the indications are there. Mr. Rohit says, "Is it good for Prime Minister Modi to visit genocidal Netanyahu? What has he done to Gaza? Israel is an important defensive partner. But what about humanity? This is geopolitics. This is national interest. You don't care about humanity in these matters. See, geopolitics is amoral. It's not immoral. It's amoral. Mr. Modi's job is to serve his country and the people of his country. And if you have to deal, if you have to be friends, let's say, with a nation that's fighting a war against some people, even if it's hypothetically an unjust war, it doesn't matter to us. Mr. Modi's job is to serve his country and his people only. Mr. Modi's job is not to serve the world. This is the problem in India that we imagine that we have to look, we have to serve humanity. No, you have to s there are there's a reason why the world has borders. Each leader has one job. Serve your people and serve your country. And you have inhuman nations next to us. Pakistan is the world's biggest terrorist regime. That's one example. So I from my perspective, Gaza is not important for us. The people of Gaza support Pakistan by the way. And why is whatever has happened to Gaza, why has it happened? Because of what they did to the the terrorist attack that carried out in October 2020, what 24 was it? Whenever it was. So, Israel is an important partner for for India. So, Mr. Modi is completely right to visit Israel and he's completely right to to strengthen India's relationship with Israel to what about humanity? What about the humanity of of the people of India? The people of Gaza support Pakistan which has been fighting this inhuman terrorist war against the people of India. What about that? Why are we concerned about the humanity of people of Gaza but not the people of India? We still have lacks of Kashmiri pundits who are not able to go back to their own homeland. Where is the humanity in that but we are not concerned about them. We are concerned about Gaza. I don't understand this sir. Really humanity doesn't matter in geopolitics. Your national interest is all that matters. That's just the way of the world. It may sound very inhuman and whatever but it is what it is. The praepar says can Iran blockade Gulf of Aan using Houthis? They can try. They've tried that in the past. Uh the Houthis between 24 and 26, they blockaded the Gulf of Adan, didn't they? They blockaded the uh straight of Babal Mandib and they did not allow ships to pass through the the straight. Let me show you on the map. So the Houthis did succeed. The Ansar Allah faction in in Yemen. See this this straight, the Babal Mandibra was blockaded by the Houthis and the Americans launched hundreds of air strikes on the Houthis and they were unable to destroy the Houthi regime, the Houthi leadership, the Houthi power. They were unable to destroy that. So eventually the Houthi said, "Okay, we will allow American ships to pass, but we will not allow Israeli ships to pass." and the Americans could do could not do a thing about that. So, uh it is possible that there could be something happening in this region also right now that we are not aware of possibly because you don't have any western observers in this region typically, right? You will have western observers in this region but not there. Uh so Iran can possibly instruct the Houthis to blockade the Gulf of Adan, the straight of Babal Mandib. The Iranians still haven't blockaded the straight of hormones yet as far as I know. But let's see. All these all the all of these plays are very much possible in the coming days. A blockade of the straight of hormones is possible and a blockade of the straight of Babal Mandib is also possible. That could be happening now or it could happen in the coming days. It's definitely a possibility. Yes. Um, Dvod Asputra says, "MBZ in India, Modi in Israel. Has India chosen a side?" Looks like India is in the process of choosing a st a side. Looks like that. Looks like India is choosing the West. Yeah. Yeah. Looks like that. If you look at all the different pieces of indications and you put them together, they are indeed forming a pattern that India is choosing a side and it's not Russia and China. It's not bricks, it's the US, India is just too compromised. Ready always ready says India will become 10 trillion in 10 years. Why are you saying India will be a vasal? Because economic size doesn't matter. My goodness, do you people learn nothing from me? Do you people learn nothing from me? Japan was the world's second largest economy in the 1980s. It was almost neck-to- neck with the US while being under US occupation. Economy makes no difference whatsoever. Will you people not learn anything from me? Why am I doing all this? Why do I spend all these hours talking to you and explaining things? Don't you people pay attention sometimes? You can be a complete slave while becoming an economic giant. Okay, let's let's see the world's largest economist in the 1980s. Okay, let's see this um top five economies economies in in the world 1985 the US was 4.34 trillion Japan was second 1.43 43 trillion and the others we don't even know. So Japan was all the way at second spot while being under permanent US military occupation being a full-fledged American vasal. It was number two in the world. It's like being what 1520 trillion economy today while being a vasal. So please let's not delude ourselves and imagine everything is economic size economic uh strength is everything. The posture co says maybe it's time for Yogi to take over ASAP. Well it's time for a lot of change but does the change happen? Will the change be allowed to happen? I have been saying it's time for lots of deep reforms in India. It may be time, but will it happen is the question, right? Shivanch says, "Iran's defense minister has been taken out already." That's what I'm hearing. That's what I saw just a while ago on Twitter. Apparently, the defense minister of Iran has been um like you say, taken out. This is war. This is war. You see, war is nasty. War is brutal. Anime Barati has gifted Barati has gifted 10 memberships of the travel. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you so much. That's very kind of you. I thank you on behalf of me and the 10 people who have received this gift. Thank you so much, sir. Kajura Thornon says, "Scyroing debt, crime, cultural rot, illegal immigration, falling TFR. Does the health of the US nation have no effect on the US empire? Skyrocketing debt that debt is entirely constructed by the US itself?" I'm not sure if even high call high caliber economists fully understand the structure of debt. A lot of the debt that the US owes is to itself. Do you know that a lot of the debt is owed to itself and of course there's the treasury bonds and all that. That's one component of the debt. So yeah, there is debt but the debt is in US dollars. Do you understand that? The debt makes no real big difference. The US can wipe out the debt by playing some some tricks. So there is debt, crime, there is crime, but the US has always been that sort of nation where crime is just barely held in check through the use of the police. The US is a police state. Much of Western Europe is is bunch of police states. So you have that cultural rot. Yeah, sure. Anyway, what's US culture anyway? Does the US even have a culture? Cultural rot. You look at immigration. Now the US can smash it can squash illegal immigration if it wants. So it's not like India where India is completely helpless in front of illegal immigration. In the US the the US knows exactly where each il illegal immigrant is and they can deport them all very quickly following TFR. Yes. So uh is the US in in bad health? It's not in great health but it's not in terrible health either. It's not in the same kind of rude health it was in in the 1950s. It's not that way. Yeah, the US has declined. The standards have declined in the US. The education system is terrible compared to what you had in the 1950s, but still heavenly compared to India. Um, so this all is going to have long-term effects on the strength and viability and longevity of the US empire, but no short-term effects. Short-term, the US is great. It's in great shape. Long-term, 50 years, 100 years, yeah, it's going to have an effect, but not next 3 years, next 5 years, next 10 years. 50 years, 100 years, yeah, there's going to be an effect of this. Not short term. Yeah. Shubat Shukla says Shukla Shourat Shubat Shukla says after BJP lost regime change in Bangladesh Hindu genocide Bangladesh Bahalgam attack happens after BJP lost majority hence no big reforms coming did USA pre-planeted I I don't know I can't say uh BJP lost BJP lost majority yeah BJP lost the majority in 2024 right it's a minority government it's it's a coalition government now um did the US pre-plan it well there's definitely going to be foreign interference in your electoral matters. For sure. For sure. India is so badly penetrated by foreign social media platforms and so many other things that there's going to be electoral interference in India. Of course, but if India decides to become a vasal state, then you may not have that much interference. You see um so yeah there there is definitely foreign interference in our electoral affairs no question about that. Um IPK says bat bat gaja became b okay instead of dharaja no comments no comments I don't discuss these matters but I think you all know where I stand on this polariz says if we get vasalized is UT the economy that will be controlled first UT The econ is it the economy is it the is it the economy it will be controlled first? No. If you are vasalized the first control they when you become a vasal what do they first control? They first penetrate you thoroughly. They control the system, the institutions, the political let's say parties. That's what they control first. Then controlling the economy becomes a cakewalk. You don't how will you control the economy without controlling the the entire system. So when you vasalize a country, you penetrate deep within. You control all the people who actually wield the levers of power at various levels in the country. Then once you have that done, once you have once you have once you have full control over all the institutions, whether it's the bureaucracy, whether is is whatever whatever whatever whatever then and you don't have to control it by force. There are so many nice ways of controlling people, right? And controlling institutions. So the economy eventually will get controlled if you are vasalized. Yes, Wenut. Thank you very much. Wenut Ravitija. Thank you very much sir. Thank you. Honey Sharma says is if India is allegedly a wasal, do you think the Chinese are regretting it right now because they have another US in their neighborhood and they they never did anything to make make peace with India demarcating border. Do you think China let's say India it's a interesting question Honey Sharma is asking very interesting question actually so let's say hypothetically in two weeks time hypothetically of course hypothetically in two weeks time India becomes a US facile hypothetically will the Chinese regret it that you know we allowed this to happen because we were not nice to India we never agreed to demarcate the border and so on will the Chinese regret it won't regret it why because The Chinese haven't made India a Wasal. The Chinese did not push India towards Vasalhood. Let's say let's say interesting question actually multiple angles I can think of. Okay, imagine that 5 years ago China agreed to demarcating the border with India. Okay, let's let's shake hands. Let's let bygones be bygones. Let's demarcate the border and be friendly. Now if that had happened then ra could have happened possibly it you would have a higher chance of ra then bricks could have become more powerful then India and China would have been strongly integrated even more economically. So if China had agreed 5 years ago to demarcate the border and normalize the situation with India then maybe there would be less of a likelihood of India being forced to become a US vasal down the line. So if India does become a US vasal hypothetically and that change that that changes things for the worse for China, China will regret it. Yeah. So if China had in the past 5 years ago, let's say hypothetically agreed to demarket the border and normalize the relationship with India, then it would have been less likely for India in the future to become a vasal. So China may regret that behavior actually. Yeah, that is entirely China's fault. Very interesting question. Yeah, very interesting, sir. Very interesting. Hazy says your bets on the outcome of US versus rest of 191 countries 190 is it an if or a when that Europe joins the rest of the world US hgemony for 100 200 years but the US is not you know up against 191 countries most of the countries that matter are American vasals already it's true that right now the US is treating its vasals badly but when you're a vasal you have no choice. is right. What can I do about it? Uh so the US is indeed treating its vasals somewhat badly right now. Trump is being very nasty. Yeah. Uh but the rest of the countries of the world can't really stand up to the US. So is it a if or a when that Europe joins the rest of the Europe is already a bunch of vasals, right? See there are two cate there are there is Eastern Europe and there's Western Europe. In Western Europe there are two categories of nations. One is the NATO nations and the other is the EU nations. And a lot of NATO nations are also EU nations. So if you're a member of NATO, you are a US vasal. If you're member of EU, you aren't fully sovereign and you are indirectly controlled in some way or the other by the US. So Europe has already joined the ranks of the vasals. A long long time ago, West Germany came under US occupation in 1945 when Germany was reunified. The whole of Germany came under US occupation. Military occupation. Germany has been under permanent US military occupation since 1945. You may not realize it, but it's the case. Same for Italy. So, um, and if the US succeeds in the current regime change operation in Iran, it isolates China even more and China will face massive problems when it comes to energy security. The US can shut down the tap that of oil that flows to China. on demand the US can now do it. You understand this war is not just about Iran, it's also about China. So if the US succeeds here, which it most likely will, then the US could rule the world. If it wins the technological race, AI race, it could rule the world for the next 200 years. Very possible. Yep. Humanity survives. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. Hanish says if India is now a vasal, will you be allowed to speak like this publicly in the future or you will have to face consequences like Tommy Robinson? I don't know what Tommy Robinson says or whatever. Um I don't know what consequences he has faced. There are lots of people in the US who speak against US policies and I'm not opposed to the US in principle as such. The US is a fantastic country. There's a lot to admire in the US. I am for India's sovereignty and I am not as such as an enemy of any nation including the US. So I don't think there'll be an issue for me. Yeah, there are plenty of people even in the US who speak up against specific policies of the US. I don't think there's going to be any issue if if India does become. Okay. Anik says Putin visited India two months before the um UA war. What's the UA war? A Ukraine war. Okay. Putin visited India two months before the Ukraine war and in and Modi knew about the war. India started buying Russian oil immediately. That doesn't that make us you Russian Wasal, right? No, it does not make us a Russian Wasal. It makes us a Russian partner. It makes us you could say quasi allied with Russia. It doesn't make India Russian vasal. Do you understand what vasalhood means? It means remote control. It means remote control of one one nation by another country which benefits from this remote control and it victimizes this country. That's washood. Vasalhood is a master slave relationship in which one nation benefits and one nation suffers. Sometimes you don't even realize in what ways this nation is suffering. Sometimes the suffering is not apparent to anybody. That is all. The India Russia relationship is not vasal. Okay. Okay. I hope that clarifies the matter. Understand what Vasal is about. One nation benefiting and one nation suffering. Mr. Rohit says why Prime Minister Modi has not done open press conference in India. I I say and that's not a question for me. You should ask Prime Minister Modi with that question. And anyway, this is a political question. I don't deal with Indian politics, sir. Please. No, no. Ask ask Mr. Modi. Don't ask me. Pratik Kumar Royce is Russia Ukraine war update. It's it's um it's a war of attrition. It's a frozen conflict. You know, it's just going on. There's nothing notable to discuss right now. The lines on the map are mostly holding. Uh Russia is in control of roughly you could say 1/5 or 1/4 of Ukraine of the earthwilile territory of Ukraine including Crimea and the Donbas region and uh right now it looks like the war could end through non-military um means possibly maybe some kind of agreement or or something. So nothing major to update or or discuss about the Russia Ukraine war. Uh Barat Barat M. Kulkarnney thank you very much sir. Thank you. Pratip Kumar Royce's Professor Jang predicted US Iran war after Trump wins two years back. Shock. Well, look, it was apparent at some point in time the Americans will take out Iran. Okay, so it's not that big of a surprise that this has happened. But okay, kudos to Professor Young. Looks like he's a very interesting guy. I have seen a couple of his clips. I think it was either you Pratit or some some other people who had on multiple occasions in the past live streams recommended professor professor Jang's uh YouTube channel and his uh lectures right so I saw a few of his of his clips I've not seen any of the long ones interesting guy definitely knows what he's talking about he has a clear understanding of history of the structure of of the way the world is is ruled yeah but he also is an interesting guy in other ways. So, okay. Saki Prattab Sina says, "Do you think this war will extend or be shortlived?" I don't see it lasting very long unless Russia gets involved. Unless Russia gets involved and Russia getting involved is in my opinion very unlikely. So, if Russia doesn't get involved, then how long can Iran keep fighting? They don't have unlimited resources. They don't have unlimited missiles. Okay. So, the Americans have essentially unlimited supplies, like way more resources than than the Iranians. Of course, the Americans are fighting far from their home, but they have a lot of, you could say, allies in the region who will support them. So, I think this war will not last very long. Maybe a week, maybe two. I don't see it lasting six months. Okay, I don't think it'll last that long and the Americans have a very clear agenda, right? Regiment change and so does Israel. So it is not in their benefit for the it is not good for them if the war lasts to the lasts too long. The longer the war lasts, the weaker the Americans and Israel will look and the stronger the Iranians will look that they're resisting. Look at them. They have been resisting so long. So, it is in America's interest to make this war end as soon as possible. But obviously, it's a it's not it's easier said than done. Iran is a major power, a large nation, much larger than Iraq. So, it may go on for a while. Maybe few weeks, maybe a month or two, but if it goes on for 6 months or so, it will not be good. It will be bad for the US. So, I don't expect it to last 6 months, maybe a few weeks. Hanisha says, "What kind of vasalhood will India be assigned to? Will we be like South Korea or Japan or since we have our own nuclear weapons and means to deliver them, will we be more like the French coexist sovereign?" So if hypothetically India becomes a vasal nation, India will be turned into a big market for dumping American goods. That's one thing. Second, India will not be allowed to become a major manufacturing power. India will be able to will be allowed to be a major exporter of IT services and other services. But no manufacturing manufacturing whatever we're doing whatever level we're doing that much we can keep doing but we should import all the nice stuff from the other countries. So why do you need to manufacture things import'll give you the best goods. So we'll if we become vasal basal nation we'll keep importing military uh hardware. We'll keep we'll become a big market of consumers and uh we'll never become a major economy. We will have nuclear weapons. Those will be ceremonial nuclear weapons not to be used for anything. And we will pre pretend to be a very sovereign nation. Our leaders will give speeches of sovereignty and most people will believe those speeches and so on. That's the kind of thing. So real vasalhood is where the vasalhood is hidden. Yeah. The best sort of vasalhood is where people don't even realize that you vasals. Okay. Bat mulki says will India lose Chabahar soon because of this war? India has lost Jabahar. It's gone. India lost it a few weeks ago. We gave up our stake in Jabahar. We liquidated our stake in Jabahar, which means that we paid Iran a certain amount of money and walked out of Jabahar. It's over. We are no longer operating Jabahar or whatever whatever terminals we were operating. It's over. Before the war, the Americans told us, "Get out of Shabbah." And we agreed. We we said, "Okay, sir. We'll we'll we'll leave. Innocent USA says ah Clint Eastwood the man with no name Modi yogi can stand against innocent USA unless once in a thousand year never before miracle man appears yeah possibly you are right possibly you are right yes Singh says it's just hide your strength bide your time by Modi I hope so sir. I hope so. I hope so. One should always have hope. I hope so. The posture says the posture causes what if China solves the border issue with India in the coming weeks? Will India decline to be a US vasal? In what scenario India will not become a vasal practically? That's a great question and that we can not be a vasal even if China I mean this is actually independent of China but let's say China next week says okay let's resolve the border issue quickly that let's demarcate the border and end our and normalize our relationship will that now make a big difference for us probably too late probably too Um because Vasalhood has other factors too. If China if China normalizes its relationship with India, will that give India access to energy that America doesn't control? Yeah. See today we are in a situation where all the energy we are buying oil gas whatever it most of it comes from other countries and those countries are controlled by the US most of them we are no longer buying Iranian oil Iran will still be controlled by the US so then all of our sources of oil energy will be controlled by the US even if China says okay let's normalize our situation our relationship that won't prevent us from being under American pressure and leverage constantly like That's just one thing. Other thing is that if even if China resolves the border issue with India, India is still deeply penetrated, compromised and so on technologically, militarily and so on. So that will not, you know, save India from becoming an American vasal. It won't. Um is it possible China resolves the border issue with India and India and Russia and China decide to come together form RAIC and work together. So India gets Russian oil and then we stand up against the US. Is is it possible? It's theoretically possible. But Russian oil comes to India through the Atlantic, then the Mediterranean, then the Red Sea and all these choke points the Americans can stop the Russian oil from coming to India and China. So again we are under there is a lot of leverage the US has over us. So theoretically it's kind of possible you know 5% likelihood but practically the US is just too strong and it's too late for India now. Whatever measures India should have taken for us to remain sovereign long term should have happened in the last 15 years and we have done none of those things. So Wun Vishal says, "Do you get existential dread looking at the future?" No, no, we'll be fine. I don't get existential dread. I don't. Ashtoh Katyal says, "With the US busy with Iran and Pakistan, busy with Afghanistan, what are the chances of operation sindu soon?" Chances are 0.5%. Means there are no chances unless the Americans tell India okay you have been a good boy so now go and take Kashmir if the Americans give us the approval then it could happen otherwise there's 0% chance of operation Hindu happening zero zero nothing whatsoever okay Pratep Kumar Royce says an Indian guy was explaining in Ranir's podcast how developed China is when compared to EU or US let know let alone India how are we so far behind because we have not bothered to do something to get ahead. Right? Why is China so developed? Because they invested tremendous amounts of time, energy, and resources into improving their standards. From the 1980s onwards, just in one sector, the education system, the Chinese government invested trillions of dollars. Do you understand how important education is? The Chinese invested trillions of dollars only in the education system in reforming it. Then they went all in on manufacturing and they built up the biggest manufacturing base in the world. That took decades and so much hard work. So they put in so much effort, energy, money, time, all of that. in doing this. What have we done? What what has India done? And all of this took deep reforms in China. China has become unrecognizable. That's how thoroughly they have reformed every single institution, every single sector. It takes reforms to change. What has India reformed? Tell me what that's why we are so far be behind. The Chinese have gone ahead in so many sectors compared to the EU or the US. The ch Chinese standards of living are in some some parts of China better than in the EU. Right? But in 1990, India and China were exactly the same level. So China made a choice. India never made that choice. India is still making not making the choice. Ready always ready says what are the signs that India is on the path path to wasalhood what percentage currently see wasalhood one of the symptoms of wasalhood is that somebody tells you what what to do and what not to do so let's say we are buying oil from Venezuela uss don't buy so we say okay okay we'll not buy let's say we are buying oil from Iran uses don't buy so we say okay we'll not buy let's say we have a port we are operating a port in Iran chabahar the US says get out of the port we go out. So when our policy decisions are being dictated by a foreign power, it means we are the vasal not 100% guaranteed but yeah we can't make our decisions on on our own. We have to first take approval and when they are displeased we have to move out of it. We have to stop doing whatever we doing. That's one example that could indicate potential vasalhood. Right? That's just one example. Second, when you're you are technologically dependent on another country, you're thoroughly penetrated by foreign social media networks, by by foreign um platforms, by foreign services, when you use foreign search engines, even if you use foreign AI, when you use everything that's foreign which belongs to one country, you are a technological vasal. India is not a techn technologically sovereign nation. By the way, technological sovereignty India's ranking India's India's score from 0 to one where zero is technological vasal and and one is technologically sovereign. India is like 0.1 technologically India is a vasal already clearly. So when you are technologically compromised that's the issue. Then when you are when your military depends on foreign purchases that's a that's again a red flag there there are so many red flags like this when you are when you are um dependent on other countries for for energy that compromises you. It is not a you know necessarily vasal but it's it's a risk fac major risk factor when you when your elites their their families live abroad and have foreign citizenships that's a risk that's a major major red flag so that when all these red flags come together it tells you a story Donald Putin Donald Putin says what's the point of ever even growing when soon that special majority minority I don't discuss these matters sir sorry this is not the channel for this these discussions. Pratib Kumar writes about recent Pakistan Afghanistan war. Yeah, it's going on. See the Pakistanis have been in this habit of launching air strikes at Afghanistan targeting civilians. It's the second time it happened right a couple of a few days ago. So naturally the Afghanistan government will will respond to that. They will retaliate when their civilians are being killed. So that has led to the current situation where Pakistan and Afghanistan are at war. The Afghans are dropping I mean they've taken out a couple of Pakistan at least a couple of Pakistani fighter planes. They are targeting Pakistani military installations with drones. The Pakistanis are conducting more air strikes. The Afghans have taken over some Pakistani border posts and whatnot. So yeah, that's the situation right now. But overall the Pakistanis are way too strong for Afghanistan. Uh so let's see how it goes. But it's it's another destabilizing factor in our neighborhood. We obviously stand with Afghanistan. We stand with Afghanistan. The Pakistanis are a bunch of terrorists. Yeah. So that's where it stands. The war means says January 26, Venezuela. February 26 next Iran. What next? Um Cuba Cuba is they say it's like a lowhanging fruit for the US. Yeah. So yeah, the Venezuela is done. Iran is now in process. Maybe it'll take a few weeks for the Americans to to win the war against Iran. What next? Could be Cuba. After that, what is left? Russia and China only, right? I suppose Yemen. I suppose Yemen. They could perhaps take out Yemen possibly. But uh yeah, so all the big major adversaries they're taking out one by one. Maybe Cuba. Maybe then they will go for Canada and and and Greenland perhaps. Okay. RJ Damiwal, thank you very much sir. Thank you so much indeed. Reckless says since Indian government doesn't really care about its people or where the country is heading and they had the option to make things better and they did not. What problem do we have in becoming based from a normal citizens perspective? Short-term, medium-term, nothing bad. Long-term, you may your descendants may not practice the same religion and culture as you. That's that's a long-term problem, potential problem. Um, uh, yeah. So, when you are a vasal of an Abrahamic nation, you lose your culture, you lose your identity. uh all that is replaced by something else long-term show slowly it happens. So if India hypothetically becomes a vasal you may see an increase in the intensity and speed of the industrial scale conversions to foreign religions that are already happening right now in the past 10 years. You may see more of that. You may see more parts of India's far east coming under foreign occupation. Manipur is at least 50% under foreign occupation right now. The government of India has no control in places like Churachanpur. So you may see more of that happening in India. So slowly slowly you will lose whatever you have. Eventually the nation may get fragmented possibly. But short-term things will be fine. Possibly even medium-term things will be fine. Yeah. Aniket says she's daughter lives in Australia by the way. Very interesting. Let's let's I've also heard about that. Let me fact check that. Let's find out. Where does Xi Jinping's daughter live? Straa, US. She was in the US in the past. Okay. She's in the US, specifically Massachusetts, where she previously attended. That's really interesting actually. That's really interesting. I wonder what sort of arrangement this is an indication of. You are right to point this out. You're right to point it out. Is Xinping himself compromised? Is he himself compromised? Yeah. Coffee. I wonder. I wonder. Yeah. Kabira says, "How would you characterize Singapore's strategic strategic positioning between major powers and what might this mean for its future sovereignty and autonomy?" Um, it's called multi-dependency. right? U you are dependent on other nations entirely but you balance that out in such a way that you kind of have autonomy. Um that's called multi-dependency. So that's that's Singapore is a reasonably autonomous nation. They've done a admirable job at whatever they've been doing in the past few decades. the way they've risen from poverty and whatnot and they are just too small to be genuinely sovereign but they really matter economically and uh yeah so it's a it's a state of multi-dependency balanced multi-dependency uh future sovereignty and autonomy well if they continue their policy successfully then long-term also they'll be autonomous and mostly sovereign ringu. Thank you very much. Thank you. Ankuras says what will happen to us a thousand years of slavery and misery? Maybe not a thousand years, maybe 100, 200 and no maybe not misery, maybe not. So if we become a vasal hypothetically then it's likely that you know in 50 years 100 years there will be no Indian culture left and we'll our descendants will be practicing a foreign religion and culture and maybe they'll be happy maybe they'll be happy with it maybe Hinduism etc will be relegated to museums and they'll go and see oh our our backward barbarous ancestors used to practice this primitive religion but now we are free so maybe they'll be happy in the future if we become aasal Yeah. And maybe it won't last a thousand years. No empire lasts 1,000 years. I mean, no major empire has lasted 1,000 years, right? At least in in in a way that's powerful. Typically, empires last two 200 250 years. So, uh, Saki Prattabina says, "What are India's options to evade or prevent?" Nothing much today. Whatever we should have done should have happened in the past 15 years, 20 years. If we had got that right, then today we would not be in a situation where we have to pick a pick pick a side. We would have been way more in a much better position than today. Right? If we had become a major manufacturing power, if we had become a major technological power, that would not have happened without major reforms. So, we would have done those reforms. And if you were genuinely a major technological and manufacturing and and industrial power, that means some strong military power as well, not dependent on others, then we would not be in a position where we may have to potentially hypothetically accept mass today. If you want to access it will take 10 20 years to do that long process right if we start today we are we haven't even started today so yeah today there is no India has no options essentially whatever work should have been done should have been done in the past 15 20 years today the what nothing ranging says I think they will use India as a meat grinder in a fight against China as Japan population is declining. So India will serve this purpose. Why Modi allow so sad? I don't see the Chinese going to war against the US. I don't see that happening unless the Chinese are in a desperate situation. But if they go to war against the US, the Chinese know they will lose it. China is guaranteed to lose a war against the US. The Chinese don't want to fight a war. Now, can the US use India? If India becomes a vasal, the the Americans can potentially engineer a war against China with India. That's possible. Uh will the US want to use India like that? Well, it depends on multiple factors. So, one possibility if India becomes a vasal is that India does get used as a meat grinder in a war against China. That's that's a possibility. if we become a vasal. Um, yeah. So, the moral of the story is never become a vasal. Don't allow anyone to use you in whatever way. That's the moral of the story. See, when we were we were a British vasal, we were under British occupation, we were used as a meat grinder in World War I and World War II, weren't we? So, once again, if you are vasal in the future, we'll be used in in whatever way they they feel is best. Yeah, Nishant Tari says, "If the US captures Iran, which leads to energy and oil problems in China, will it benefit EU or Germany economically?" So, let's say the US captures Iran. This will lead to energy and oil problems in China. Yes. Will this benefit EU and Germany? Nah. No. See the US will not really create a shortage of oil or whatever in China. It will simply dangle that on China's head like a sword willing to fall, waiting to fall. So when the Chinese will come under this kind of dependency, their behavior will change and they will their behavior will be then you could say dictated by the US to a greater extent. So their behavior will have to be such that it benefits the US. Okay. And the US will will determine the parameters of China's behavior. Um so how does that benefit the EU or Germany? Not sure how it does. uh if the war in Ukraine ends and there's a resumption of Russian uh energy into into Western Europe that could benefit the EU and Germany. If the US captures Iran, maybe there's a deal that that also ends the Ukraine war. Then it could indirectly benefit Western Europe, Germany and so on. So everything you see is interconnected. The Iran war that's happening right now is connected to China. It is also connected to the Ukraine war and all of these things are also connected to the economy in Western Europe. It's all interconnected in multiple ways. So, um I would say the Ukraine war is more closely relevant to u the economic situation in in Europe compared to the Iran thing. Shiraghawasti says, "What would happen if Iran strikes aircraft carrier of the US? What would it trigger? As that is just about probability. If the Iranians strike an American aircraft carrier, there will be the Americans will extract tremendous amount of vengeance from Iran. They will punish Iran for that. Iran could potentially do that. Yes. If the Iranian government is going down, they will strike at everything and then they will be punished militarily by the US. The US has all kinds of weapons at their disposal. Yeah. So if they if they strike an aircraft carrier, maybe they disable or destroy an aircraft carrier, that will invite a tremendous amount of military punishment on Iran. Yeah. What would it trigger as that is just what will it trigger? A huge military response from the US like allout military response. Devastating military response by the US. the US may potentially use various kinds of missiles that they typically would not use otherwise. So yeah, Harban Jud Singh says all this geopolitics talks is just big boss if we can't do something. No authority or government is listening. So what to do as citizens? As of now it's blood boiling and we can't do anything. Just shout at it. What can we do as citizens? Nothing. That is just the truth. Yeah. So, you're right. It's like Big Boss. I I mean, I I've never watched a single episode of Big Boss, so I don't know how it goes, but it's like watching um some people fighting and and shouting about it or whatever. And there's nothing we can do. As citizens, you can do something about the fate of your country only if you rise to a position of power at some level. Then you can affect the the fate of the country in some way. The higher in power you rise, the more of an effect you can have on the direction the country goes in. If you are simply a voter, you have you have going to have no effect on what the happens to the country, right? There's nothing you can do about it. Nothing. As a citizen, all you are allowed to do is vote. And voting typically often makes no difference. you vote for them or they you know often it's like that. So as a citizen the only thing you can do is vote once in 5 years or once in your local elections whatever those things are but what difference does it make is the question right so yeah that's one way of looking at it it's like you're watching big boss or watching IPL or whatever uh Goautam Gotham thank you very much Gotham Goautam Wad Turi Goautam VM Tuli thank you very much sir thank Paris Rattor says, "How is cowing down to the US as we are doing right now the different from the doctrine of hide your strength and b your time?" Good question. Good question. Good question. So cowing down the U to the US like they're doing right now, how is it different from hire your friend by? Great question. So Ding Xiaoing had this policy for China. Don't show what you're doing. You may be becoming more powerful slowly but don't show it. Don't advertise it. Wait for the right time. Hide your strength. Pretend to be meek. So isn't that what India is doing? No. Because while China was doing hide your strength and bio time they were ensuring that China doesn't get penetrated by the Americans they were keeping the Americans out from specific sectors. They were building the great firewall of China. No American social media platform will be allowed in China. No American search engine will be allowed in China. No American whatever will be allowed in China. The Chinese were walling off their internet. They were ensuring there is no penetration of China while they were hiding their strength and biding their time and whatever penetration existed they were getting rid of it in sometimes very brutal ways which you will not hear about that's what the Chinese were doing now is India doing that or is India allowing itself to get progressively more and more penetrated by the US that's the difference you see that is the Vir Kamat says why did Prime Minister Modi visit Israel for the past week so close to the resumption of these strikes? Is it to agree to terms of vasalization or something else? Well, it was to take the relationship between India and Israel forward to new heights. Well, let's let's ask Google what are the outcomes. Okay. What are the concrete outcomes of Prime Minister Modi's uh Israel Israel visit? Let's see what are the deals and things. Uh we have elevated our relationship to a special strategic partnership for peace, innovation and prosperity. Peace, innovation, prosperity. 27 concrete outcomes, 17 signed agreements, 10 major strategic announcements, uh technology critical and emerging technologies, launch of a new initiative, AI, semiconductors, quantum computing, cyber security, center of center of excellence, letter of intent was signed, outstanding defense cooperation, joint development and production of military equipment under MIL in India, AI and research, $1.5 million. My goodness, such a gigantic sum of money. Yeah. Okay. FTA negotiations will continue. UPI integration of some kind. Financial dialogue. Labor mobility. Okay. India will export more cheap labor. Very nice. Academic and cultural exchange because India has a lot of lot to offer academically to Israel. Um innovation center for agriculture. Fantastic water. Okay. All this stuff. So this is why Prime Minister Modi visited Israel, visited Israel to take the partnership between India and Israel to to greater heights to strengthen the relationship between the two countries. That's why Prime Minister Modi visited Israel. He did not visit Israel to kiss any ring. That's why he visited Israel. Sunju says, "Would it have been different if Kamala had won?" um it makes no difference who actually wins. Okay? Even if Kamala had let's say won, this would have happened anyway because it was time. Whoever actually runs the US has decided this is the time. So if Kamala had won, she would have been giving that speech and whatever it would have been no different. IPK1S says the great aim once said Pakistan got army India got Babuam Babuam which is not incorrect at all. Yeah. See most nations have an army but in Pakistan the army has a nation right the army owns the nation in Pakistan. Well for India it's the bureaucracy. In most countries the country has a bureaucracy. In India, the bureaucracy owns India. The bureaucracy owns and operates India and even the politicians can't do a thing about this. So what the Pakistani army is for Pakistan the exact same thing the bureaucracy is for India. And I'm sure there are plenty of very good bureaucrats who are genuine patriots and all but that doesn't make any difference. There are many very very patriotic and honest bureaucrats but that doesn't matter. There are lots of highquality professors and teachers too in the Indian education system but the education system is rotten to the core isn't it? So yeah there we are. There we have it. Kajor Bathon says we have been technologically and energetic energy dependent since independence. What is it this moment that makes you feel it is too late and Vasalhood awaits? Is it just US belligerence? I believe time is in our side. Yeah, we have been technologically independent dependent since. So let's deal with tech tech and energy separately one by one. I mean one by one. Technologically we have been dependent since independence, right? We depended on multiple sources for technology in the cold war. So in the cold war during the cold war you had two sides the USSR and the US and for some technology we depended on the US depended on the US and for some technology a lot more we depended on the USSR. So we always had options. Yeah. when it comes to energy even in the 20th century during the cold war I don't know how much oil we bought from USSR or whatever but we had options today and and at that time we were not forced by an overwhelmingly more powerful nation to make a choice it's us or them right I mean in In the 20th century, we had Bangladesh happen. We we liberated Bangladesh despite US opposition, despite the US being on Bangladesh's side because we had the USSR on our side. We had the balancing power. We had the balance in the world at the time. We were a weak nation compared to Pakistan. We were strong. But the US did not want us to break Pakistan. But the USSR came and stood stood with us. not just full support verbal nonsense but actually they came and stood with us militarily. So that's why the world was balanced at the time for us and we were not vasals of anybody if you if you were to ask me genuinely we were more on the USSR side and quasi vasalized but not fully vasalized by the USSR. We're more dependent on them. Uh so and energy also that's the same situation. So today we are in this situation where there is no balancing force to the US. The US is is the only superpower in the world. There's no one who can offset American power. So there's no way we can balance out that we will do some things with you and some things with this other guy. There's no such thing. The only major economic power is China who is also an enemy of India. So we have no options left today. You see one option we could have done was to make ourselves powerful in the past 15 20 years by reforming India thoroughly but we chose not to do that not even begin the process. You understand? So awaits when you when you run out of options awaits when you run out of options. India is kind of running out of options now. Mclivin says, "Seems like Kim Jong-un is the best leader in the world right now." Okay. Yeah. Kim Jong-un is is very clear, right? He will vasalize his country to China in certain ways while remaining retaining full control of his country in other ways. And that that keeps the US away, right? The US can't do a thing about North Korea. So yeah, he's he's a very practical pragmatic leader and that's a family trait for him. His father and grandfather also played the same game, right? So hyphen says, "Just came back from Rome. People friendly compared to the UK. I did not miss a single ask blockbuster episode as always. Thank you very much." Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. Thank you. You did not miss a single episode from Rome. Fantastic. Thank you. Thank you so much, sir. I really really appreciate that. Means a lot all of you actually. Uh so you came back from Rome. People are really friendly compared to the UK. I agree. The Romans and the Anglo-Saxons are very different people. Very different. Very different people in Italy in Rome are like they're closer to us culture. I mean not really culturally. I mean, but overall the attitude and approach of the Italian people, it's it's very different from that of the UK. The Italians are more expressive, more exuberant, warmer. They speak more with their hands for so people are very friendly compared to the UK. Yeah. Very totally different culture. Totally different cultural. um Italy is and in Italy also you've got different regions and people are different in different regions. You go to you go to the far north of Italy people are different compared to the people in the Rome region compared to the people in Tuskan compared to the people in Sardinia um and so on. Yeah. Yeah. Very nice place actually Italy very nice. Uh Shashidar says why did India have to make a choice? Why not stay neutral? Let's say some some very powerful guy comes and puts a gun to your head and says you can't stay neutral. You may have to make a choice. What will you do? You'll make a choice. You don't have the choice anymore to stay neutral. You are given the option. You are either with us or against us. You're going to make a choice now. How will you stay neutral then? Tell me with a gun to your head. Kabira says, "Dubai's growing appeal as a low tax global hub has attracted many Americans. How might the US respond to this trend over the long term? The US is fine with it. The US is fine fine with that. Yeah, it doesn't really affect the US too much. It does not. The US will will not really do anything about this unless it starts making a a genuine difference to the US and it won't, right? It won't it only attracts certain kinds of Americans the ones who the kind of Americans who are like you know people with a net worth of $5 10 million which actually is poor people if you are being very realistic if you are if your net worth is 5 $10 million you are a poor person honestly and what about the rest of us anyhow that's the kind of people it attracts Okay. It doesn't attract the billionaires. Billionaires may visit Dubai. So it doesn't really affect the US too much. So that's fine. The US is happy with this. I am Dante says, "Namaste. We have never been sovereign. We did not gain our freedom through force in 1947. We lost it." The last time India was genuinely sovereign was for a for a while in the 18th century when you had the Marata Empire reconquering most of India from the Turks. That was a time when India was to a large extent sovereign. Then before that India was sovereign maybe around 10,000 B 1000 AD around 10,000 AD India was fully sovereign. That's around the time when the decline begins with firstly Gandhar falling to the Turks right now in 1947. Why did I say earlier in this episode that Subashindra Bose failed? Do I mean to disrespect the great man? I have more respect for Subashindra Bose than any other so-called freedom fighter. He was the last great man we had Subashindra Bose. But very tragically, very sadly, he failed. Why do I say he failed? Because he sought to gain independence through force by militarily defeating the British. That's when India would have been sovereign. What happened in 47 was a transfer of power from one set of crooks to another set of crooks. If the same system continued, it continues till today. So you are right. Actually from that perspective, we have never been sovereign. You're right from the perspective we have never been so we are still colonized and we're getting progressively more colonized. So my viewers my dear viewers consider this very seriously what Ayam Nante is saying actually says that's what I was saying if Modi knew about Ukraine war doesn't make us Russian wasal then how knowing Israel attack on Iran makes us vasal it does not it doesn't make us was if we know about something knowing or not knowing about things doesn't make you a vasal when did I say that knowing about the Israel attack on Iran makes makes us a vasal. That doesn't make us a vasal. It doesn't other things makes us make us vasals. And I've explained that like multiple times in this episode. What makes you a vasal and what makes you sovereign? So knowing that something is going to happen is a privilege. It doesn't make you a vasal. But you also have to ask yourself that if I have this privilege, why do I have it? Uh Barat says best books on geopolitics and history please come on man there are no books on geopolitics the best books on geopolitics are books on history best books on history I don't know there are you can't read learn history from like three books or five books you have to be okay best book on history I'll tell you okay my personal favorite which started me on my my on my journey in history. I'll tell you that. Okay. Uh will Durant the the story of civilization? This is a set of 11 books. Okay. I read these books as a kid and some of these I read as a as a kid, some I read later. But this is the best series of books about history and it's a you could say it's obsolete or whatever, but it's it's great. Read those. Read those geopolitics. There there's no books on geopolitics. Do have you ever seen a textbook on geopolitics anywhere? There are no books on geopolitics. The best books on geopolitics are books about history. Okay. Hyphen says, "Don't have any question, but all we all need your live streams to last forever. I know it's not human possible, but all well, I'll keep it going as as as long as I can." Okay. See, you know, I the one thing I've the one thing that's been constant on my channel, I've tried lots of things here and there. One thing that's been constant is these Askabad live streams, right? Why have I kept this going? This is episode 334. It's been like four years now or something. I I personally have subscribed to many YouTube channels. And one thing that that I've seen is that YouTube channels over time change. The things I used to really enjoy, they are no longer there on the channel because people need to change. People need to evolve. So, so and so YouTuber I used to follow no longer does what what really made me follow that YouTuber. Right? So over time most channels lose what made them originally so nice, so great. But in my case, I promise you all Ask Abij will go on, right? So at least that aspect of the channel wants won't change. We will keep doing these live streams. So anyway, hyphen G, thank you so much. Thank you so much. Swastik says 150 men controlling entire world are builderberg group search. Let's search builderberg group. Who's that? Bilderberg group. Annual private of the record conference established in 154 to foster dialogue between Europe and North America. Ah Chaitam house rules. Very interesting. Very interesting. Okay sir. This is very interesting. I shall look more into it. Thank you. Reddi always ready says how can we prevent now? What's the chance? Chances are low but not zero. Okay. Chances are low not zero. If you want to prevent vasalhood, what you have to do is to reduce the foreign penetration of a country, reduce the the amount to which your country is compromised, the reduce your dependency on other countries and gain the maximum options. That's what you do to prevent that. That is a process that takes 15 20 years. If we start today, it will take us 15 20 years to to reach that position. to be strong enough to prevent vasalhood. But we are here today. What's the chance? Low. Like I said in the past few episodes, there's a high probability India becomes the American Wasal in the next 5 years. So I stand by what I said. The chances of India preventing vasalhood are low. Low. Dirj Kamat says lots of pessimism today. Not the same pessimism or the same realism. This is not pessimism. This is realism. Do you want me to lie to you all and tell you no everything is fine. Do you want me to lie to you or do you want me to be truthful to you? There are plenty of YouTube channels where you can go and listen to lies. So this is not me being pessimistic. This is me being realistic. You would have seen that in my episode in 2024 after Trump won. You would have seen exactly the same thing. I said it differently at the time. I said that you will see a situation where India and the US relationship, India US relationship will reach the pinnacle of its relationship and India and and Trump and Modi will be dancing hand in hand. What I was alluding to was so uh evidence I do the evidence. How many times? How many times the past four hours I've been speaking about that actually a percentage the what's the probability of India becoming American masal maybe 80%. Maybe 90%. Yeah. Evidence I spoke about it so many times in the past 4 hours. It's been four and a half hours now. Wow. Oo. Okay. Shibam Chhataraj says relying on services risks autonomy. Freedom fighters, scientists, thorium gave their life instead of personal life. People who support this colonial arvinal. I agree. I agree. Yeah. So many people have given their life for India and what have they got? Okay. Darendra Desh Pad says Trump talked with Iran and mutually disc decided to misguide the world by carrying out fake strikes. Oh, what makes you say that? How are you aware? Did you listen to the conversation that Trump had with Iran? How do you know this fake strikes? Have you seen the damage in Thran? Have you seen the the Iranians launching retali retaliatory strikes on other countries? Have you not seen that? You call these fake strikes. At least one person has died in Abu Dhabi. Is that a fake strike? I don't know. I don't know how how you've come to this conclusion that these are fake strikes. And how do you know Trump mutually decided with Iran to do this? Come on. Dave ch thank you very much sir. Thank you. Goautam verman dant vermma dantaluri says how can the US or any other can destroy our culture as Muslims and British failed? See good question. No how does it happen? Tell me how culturally grounded were Indians in 1947. Let's say they were 80% culturally grounded in 1947. By 1980 the amount of cultural drowning in India was less than that. By 2000 the cultural drowning was less than that. In 2026 most Indians are super dassinated. Hindus in name only. It happens gradually slowly. It doesn't happen over the next two weeks. It will happen over the next 50 or 100 years. Slowly gradually they will teach you through the education system, through the media, through everything else to slowly just distance yourself inch by inch, millimeter by millimeter from your culture. In some cases, you you'll see it happen on an industrial scale. The industrial scale conversions that are happening in various parts of India. you. It's happening in front of your eyes, but you don't see it. It's happening every day. Thousands of your people are getting converted to foreign religions on an industrial scale every day, but you don't see it. Nobody can destroy our culture. Everybody failed. No, it's happening right now. It's happening right now. And the and the more we move away from our culture, the more deafenated we get, the easier it will become for this to become faster and faster. Okay? So within 50 to 100 years our culture could be gone completely. It it will be reduced to museum pieces. Hyphen says I completely agree with you sir and the main reason I feel keeps your live streams fresh is the unique knowledge you keep giving us for free. Thank you again. Most welcome sir. Most welcome. I wish I had you know cheerful news for you all that you know but but I I have to be realistic. I have to be truthful to you all, right? So, it is it is what it is. With Iran falling, there'll be way more leverage the US has on India and other countries and so on. So, yeah, it's just facts. It's just facts. Okay. Am Dante says, "A king gives orders to ministers to run the country. Unfortunately, we don't have one." Yeah, we don't have a king, right? We don't have a king today. When we had kings, things were different. Yeah, I know sometimes some kings are bad. But when was the last time India had a bad king? I'm not talking about the foreign occupiers like the muggles and the Turks. I'm talking about Indian kings. When was the last time he had a bad king who was Indian, not foreigner? I can't think of someone. Yeah, right. So, you're right. Yeah. Stoic bot says, "Big fan of your show, sir. Thank you very much, sir." Thank you indeed. Why have you stopped doing history AMAs lately? This was supposed to be a history AMA, but then the Iran war happened. I do history AMAs on typically on Saturdays. So, I I'll I'll tell you what. Um, so give me a second. Give me a second. I'll show you. Maybe you don't you've not seen this channel of late because a lot of people don't they don't get notifications anymore. A lot of people are being are being automatically unsubscribed or whatever. But the thing is this. See uh the current episode is 334. If you see 332, it's a combination of history and geopolitics. If you see 330, it's history and geopolitics. If you see 328, you will see some geopolitics and mystery. So it's like 50/50 or maybe 60/40. So I am indeed doing history episodes or at least 50% history episodes. Uh but maybe you are not being notified or something. I don't know. So yeah, I do this. Today is an emergency episode. This was supposed to be a history and geopolitics episode, but the war happened and that's why I've turned it into this right now. Anyway, sir, thank you so much for being for for being a viewer. Thank you so much. Dave CH, thank you very much indeed, sir. Thank you. Anonymous scientist. Good to see you. New Illuminati joint chat chat. Bohemian Grove members are mind-blowing. New Illuminati, Bohemian Grove. I've heard about these things, but um I haven't dug too deep into these matters. Right. Anyway, thank you, sir. Mosh, good to see you always. Black Panther says, "The US have aircraft carrier in Iran region. Why can't Russia China give anti-hship missile to target carrier? Its potential loss from US will reduce power projection. Do you understand what the US does will do? If somebody takes out an aircraft carrier, the US has I don't know 12 aircraft carriers, super carriers or something. If someone takes out one of their aircraft carriers, they will destroy that country. Russia and China don't need to give Iran missiles. Iran has very capable missiles, hypersonic missiles that can take out aircraft carriers. Iran has that. They don't need to borrow that from China or Russia. But does Iran dare to do this? Iran may dare to do this if the regime is going down. Then we'll see what happens. But if Iran takes out an American aircraft carrier, they will pay a big price for that because the US is just too powerful. Right? Understand that. Okay. Anik says if we were vasals we would already had trade deal with the US plus why would we have softened our relations with China in 2018 we stopped buying Iran oil because of US then we didn't become vasal at that time yeah so in around 2010 we stopped buying oil from Venezuela because of American pressure right in 2018 or whenever 20 whenever it was we stopped buying Iran Iranian oil because of American pressure so You see those individual data points don't point to was ask yourself what are the terms of the trade deal we have with the US are we importing any agricultural product products maybe we are not importing agricult agriculture products for human consumption are we importing agricultural products for animal consumption for the consumption of maybe by cows are any of agricultural products genetically modified. See, you have to look at vasalhood from a multi-dimensional perspective. One or two things don't mean vasalhood. It means pressure, but not vasalhood. Vasalhood means one nation starts controlling another nation in a way that's detrimental to the this nation's interests. Right? So, one or two data points don't make you a vasal. A combination of multiple factors all coming together they all form a pattern that shows something that's hoody padar says um oh it's a new member thank you very much sir thank you very much sir indeed welcome to this channel's membership thank you Dave CH says so we're going to be seeing the fall of Iran unfortunately most likely that's that's the logical outcome the US is just too powerful yeah and see um let's go to the map. Okay. So if the US was fighting Iran alone, it would be a different story. But if you see here, the US is not alone in fighting Iran. Israel is fighting Iran. Israel launched the first strikes. Israel is very powerful. But Israel is far away. What about the other countries? Saudi Arabia is on America's side. Kuwait is on America's side. Iraq is an American possession. Syria is an American possession. The UAE is on America's side. Bahrain and Qatar are on America's side. Pakistan is a US. Afghanistan is not strong enough to do anything about this. Iran is encircled. The America The Americans have multiple military bases in the region. Iran is isolated. It has no friends in the region. Turkey is a US ally. Okay. Russia is not very far away, but Russia is already embroiled in a war in Ukraine. Can Russia get can Russia risk getting embroiled in in another war? Now China is too far away. So you see all the odds are stacked up against Iran. It's very unlikely that Iran survives this. Yeah. Very unlikely. I'm Dante says, "We fought for a thousand years. We can fight for another 1,000 years. Dharma will rise. One should not lose hope. One doesn't lose hope, but one should also be realistic that that dharma faces an existential crisis today. If we uh disregard that, then we will lose. We can only prevail if we are being practical and realistic and actually recognize the threat we are facing. I'm not saying lose hope. I'm saying first of all recognize what we are facing. Recognize the full magnitude and nature of the threat. The dharma may possibly be if if we don't do something about it may may not last 100 years. We have to first be aware of it. We have to recognize it. We can't we can put our head under the sand like an ostrich. Only then can we do something about it. So I'm not being pessimistic. I'm a very very optimistic person. But I am simply hopefully making people aware of the the threats we're facing. That's it. Nothing else. So yeah, we fought a thousand years. We can fight a thousand years more. But if dharma no longer exists, what are you fighting? Right? Mac four says, "Scared for my dharma. It's falling and no one cares." No, people do care, but people no longer are even aware of what dharma is today. Most people are destinated. Our education system doesn't teach us our own culture. So every new generation people know less and less about their culture and eventually people will know nothing about that culture. That's the problem. Anyway, let us be optimistic. Let us u hope everybody realizes what's what's being done to India by our own our own people. godliness says at least the spectacles and narratives points towards India being on the US side on this also if Trump succeeds can we all call out those so-called geopolitical experts who are writing of the US I don't know what other geopolitical experts have been saying uh Trump the US is winning this right they have not put up this entire massive military hardware in West Asia to force Iran to the diplomatic negotiating table. Iran was already at the negotiating table and Trump has explicitly say stated that this is a regime change operation and so has Netanyahu. Uh so it'll be it'll be very surprising if Iran is able to survive this. Yeah. So I don't know who's been writing of the US but yeah um the narratives in spect everything points towards India being on the US side of this. Yeah. Yes, if is if India is with Israel, it is also with the US. That's just one one data point. By the way, YOLO donkey band says implanting everybody with neural link. Does this give us world peace? Well, it can give everybody world it can give you world peace. But on whose terms? on the terms of of whoever owns Neuralink, right? So the question is, yeah, peace is great, but peace on whose terms is the question? Whose terms? I I would not want to be to have a peace on which everybody is a mentally loized zombie. That's not that's not the kind of peace I would want. Right? godliness says who will be next for the US or it ends here perhaps Cuba perhaps Cuba and then it's Russia and China that's left so do they make Russia accept some kind of deal for Ukraine some kind of peace deal or and then will they focus on China so yeah pro next could probably be Cuba actually but the the big objective of the US is to make make the world a uniolar place and uh and deal with China and Russia. Robinson John says you said Trump kissed the ring. Does that mean that he had full judiciary backing? Then why did courts oppose the traffic rules? His traffic rules. I did not ever mean the US judiciary when I said kiss the ring. No, not the US judiciary. The US is not India. Trump. This is nothing to do with judiciary backing. Kissing the ring means means aligning yourself with someone who is more powerful than you. I mean the unelected establishment of the US. What the the entity that the world calls the deep state. That's what I meant. Not the judiciary. Not the judiciary. No. Sid Dav says B2 bomber was actually designed by an Indian party who is in jail. Um so the B2 bomber was actually no he developed stealth we'll look into that B2 bomber was actually designed by Indian Parsy American who was unfortunately then caught selling that to Israel, China, Germany etc. Um Parsei gentleman who became a US citizen who let let's see not the entire stealth bomber but yeah uh Indian par stealth uh fighter jailed. Okay, let that hopefully that Yeah. Noir Gualia he designed he he he played a key role in designing the propulsion system for the for the U B2 cell bomber. He did not design the entire bomber. He designed he was he played a key role in designing the the propulsion system and then he was caught passing on American secrets technological secrets to other nations and that's why he is in prison now is in prison now I suppose he is yeah yeah yeah industrial espionage so gotham says I know conversions are going on at industrial scale but we have much like shingari and kanchi so I still have hope But we should be aware. My point is let's not give up hope. I'm not saying ever to give up hope. But we should know what is happening. Not just know. We should let others make others also know about this. It's very important to know what is being done in India. We should know what's happening and yeah then then we can do something about it. I don't know if we can do something about it. But I mean the government is supposed to do something about it. We have elected them to power, right? Are they doing something about it? I'm not sure. Sid the way says I think Israel has tough on Trump western leaders through Epstein fires and Ivanka is also married to a Zionist Jared Krishna Israel is on the cards that's a pretty legitimate strategy in geopolitics right you need if you are if you want to succeed you should have cards on everybody you should have you should have stuff on everyone and we know Trump is in the Epstein files is all over the all over the place. Uh his daughter is married to I don't know Jared Kushner is Zionist or no I don't know but yeah he's definitely Jewish. I know that. I don't I don't know about Zionist but Trump is definitely all over the Epstein files. Yeah. And so many of these American politicians are all over the Epstein files. That guy Lutick Lutnik Lutnik is in the Epstein files. Everyone is in the Epstein files and Yeah. So, one of the legitimate tools in geopolitics is blackmail. Yeah, it is leg. It's a legitim legitimate tool to have in your toolkit. If you have dirt on a world leader and and you can blackmail the person, it's fantastic for you, isn't it? So, I'm not saying if Israel has or doesn't have, but blackmail is a legitimate tool in geopolitics. Hyphen says, "Israel, sorry, Iran is retaliating to US strikes. Does deterrence still work or are both sides sliding towards wider war?" See, the US has a very clear objective, regime change. If the US comes closer to changing the regime in Iran, Iran will lash out with everything it has got. There is going to be a much wider war. Iran, I don't see it just giving up and saying, "Okay, you take over." They won't do that. They'll fight till the end. That's that's the sense I'm getting for Iran. Which means a much wider war. Much wider much wider much much bigger war. Iran could strike at neighboring countries, oil refineries, oil wells. before the Iranian regime goes down. They may they may even destroy their own oil production facilities and burn them. If they have nuclear weapons, they may even, God forbid, use those. We are this situation will go towards a wider war. That's the sense I'm getting because the US and Israel are very clear. They want a regime change and regime change is an existential threat for the Iranian government. They Yeah. So wider war is very likely. Pratep Kumar Roy says what is this neural link? No detailed information on the internet. Was Epstein a rose shield puppet? Rosh I don't know about that. But what's neural link? Neuralink is this um technology developed by a company called Neuralink which is owned by mostly by Elon Musk. And the neural link technology is this chip that is implanted inside your head. It's got these um it has got these probes or electrodes that that are implanted inside brain tissue and it is used it can be used for multiple purposes. It can be used to give a person who's paralyzed control of their arms and legs and limbs back. Uh it can allow a paralyzed person person to communicate with the internet without moving without without physical contact. Um you can control a mouse cursor just through your brain. Um in the future you could potentially access the internet directly in your mind and so many future possibilities. It can also be used for controlling people. I suppose you know technology has good and bad bad uses. So that's what Neuralink is. It was first tested on pigs. Now it has been implanted in various people and it has apparently had very positive improvements in their life. So that sort of thing. So that's what neural link is. The the core concept is that look when we try to communicate with the internet we have to use our fingers for typing and all right and that's a very slow speed of communicating with the internet or with a computer. Today we can communicate with with uh our devices through voice also but eventually but but this speed at which data flows is still very limited right so through dural link you can just simply download entire movies into your mind I suppose right that sort of thing so that's the overall deal with mural link anish says big fan of yours appreciative work thank you so much sir thank you so much Anishi thank you and Anish is a new member thank you very much once and thank you and welcome to the channel's membership. Thank you sir. Sid the way says what do you think about conversions in Punjab Kalan movement sick separatism really hurt culturally? Many think of Hindus as enemies. It's terrible. It's terrible. It's terrible. This is all detrimental to India's interests. This has been going on since the 1980s and it still exists. this new thing has come up of in the past 10 years or so. This industrial scale daily conversion activity that's happening in Punjab. Yeah. And the objective is to you know re-engineer India's cultural and re and religious demographics. That is an existential threat to to the nation but nothing is being done to address it. Are we already a vasal state? It's terrible. That's what I think about conversion in Punjab or everywhere else. Look, I have nothing against any specific religion. If you tomorrow morning want to convert to some religion through your own choice, you have 100% the right to do that. It's your personal choice what religion you want to practice. I have nothing against that. My issue is with my I have an issue with using religion as a tool to re-engineer demographics of a country. If you if someone wants to conver convert voluntarily well well and good what's wrong with that but if someone is coming to India with billions of dollar with the objective of transforming and re-engineering the demographics that's an issue that's a war against the nation and why has the government of India failed to do a thing about this so it's it's disaster actually what's happening it's happening right now happening right now and the government is doing nothing about this I maybe India maybe I'm wrong. Maybe India has been a vasal for the past 20 years. Who knows? Who knows? Bharat Kulkarnney says, "Why doesn't India buy oil from Oman? Why Russia when it's far? Why and Saudi? Why the vulnerable hormones? Oman may be cheaper as it's closer. Oman does India not buy any oil at all from Oman? Uh why Russia when it's far? Russia gives you cheaper oil in large quantities. So if it's it may make economic sense and also India did not want Russia to get isolated and become a Chinese vasal that's why also India bought Russian oil but mainly because it's super cheap it was significantly cheaper that's why when it comes to hormones it was not vulnerable it was when has the state of hormones ever been blockaded until now I can't think of any time when this happened right so hormones looks vulnerable that way. Even the Babal Mandibra is vulnerable. Even the Malaka trade is vulnerable. It has the same geographical characteristics, right? These are choke points. But hormones when was it closed? It has not been closed. Uh so that's why India buys oil from Saudi Arabia and so on. Oman, I'm not sure why. Does India buy nothing from Oman? Let's find out. Let's find out. Does India uh buy oil or gas from from Oman? By by see we import significant amounts of crude oil and LG from Oman. So um it's 38% of India's imports from Oman. Uh crude oil and petroleum gas and so on. So yeah, India does does buy it from Oman. Okay. All right. Sid the way says, "Lots of Iranians have nostalgia of pre-Islamic past and blame Islam for their problems. This is true of the diaspora. Not sure about the Iranians in Iran." Yeah, that's what one what I hear. A lot of the Iranian diaspora is like that. Many of them are either Christians or atheists. None of none of them practice zorastrianism as far as I know. The Iranian diaspora in Iran in India who have been here for centuries. I mean when it comes to India there have been two waves of of uh migration from Iran. One was after one was about 1300 years ago after the Arabs took over Iran. A large number of Iranians fled to India because India was the only place they could that where they would give where they would get refuge without having to give up their culture. Uh and then there was there were there was another wave of migration to India of Iranians about 230 years ago. the Iranis. So these are Zoroastrians. But when it comes to the Iranian diaspora in the west, they are mostly atheists or Christians. No Zoroastrians. And some may still be Muslims. Um and yeah, many of them blame the the Islamic government for all the ills of Iran and so on. And many of them have some kind of nostalgia for for the pre-Islamic past. But I don't see Iran becoming a Zoraspan nation again. If the US religion change succeeds, Iran becomes eventually long-term a Christian nation, not Zurastrian. Pratip Kumar Roy says, "After Mr. Modi's visit to Israel, I have seen many Israeli YouTubers talking about historical people-to-people connection. I don't did not even know about Jews from 10 years ago. Shillock from Venice, Merchant of Venice was my only info." Okay. Um, right. So, I I have not seen these YouTube videos or whatever. uh people-to-people connections between India and Israel historically very very insignificant I'm sure uh I mean there's been a small Jewish presence in India dating back to the time about 2100 years before today um Jews were shipwrecked in India and the Kochin Jews or whatever it is and there have been multiple subsequent migrations of Jews to India including Sephodic Jews about 500 years ago after the reconist a of Spain and the expulsion of Jews and and and Moors from Spain. So a bunch of them them came to India and Jews have never faced any persecution any discrimination India in India ever. Zero anti-semitism of the only place in the world where Jews have um you know been treated as equals. Um yeah so that's the deal and of late obviously various people on YouTube will speak about this because India and Israel are strengthening the relationship. Black Panther says, "We are seeing democratic nation makes weaker leaders. Does second half of the century. Can we expect more communist countries?" Um, no. Communism is a failed ideology. Communism is a failed ideology. You think China is a communist nation? China is an imperial system. It's communist only in name. It's actually capitalist. there a it's more capitalist than than communist China today right it's a state controlled economy with with capitalism with Chinese characteristics and all no communism today I don't expect communism any more communist countries if there will be more communist experiments those would be disasters so I don't see it that way no if you became the prime minister of India what would you do in 20 years to fix internal and external issues would you would that make India a superpower is abandoning democracy the only path 20 years nothing will make India a superpower. India will work hard for at least 50 years to be a superpower. So my advice is let's stop using the word superpower and vishuru. If I become the PM of India, what would I do in 20 years? First of all, I will appoint myself dictator. What will I do in 20 years? I will reform the education system. That's number one. Number one, number one thing. Education system has to be reformed. Secondly, all the institutions have to be reformed. everything. So look without going into specifics 20 years fullcale deep reforms will be needed in India. It will cause short-term pain actually. Do you understand that? It will cause short-term pain 20-year pain probably in India for a lot of people who are benefiting from the current system. Uh is abandoning democracy the only path? Well, there's no real democracy in the world to be very truthful. Do you think the US is a democracy? The US is the two party state which is one step just one step ahead of of the one party system of China and North Korea. There's no real democracy in the world anywhere. Democracy doesn't empower people at all. Democracy gives gives unelected powerful people a facade to keep doing what they do. Um abandoning democracy around see eventually the world reorients itself. Democracy is a passing phase. It's it's the objective of democracy is to hide where the real power lies. Right? It it it masks where the real power of innation lies. Um, so it's it's the best system historically has been monarchy. That's what's worked for for for humanity. Monarchy. Anyway, yeah. Ankita G. Good evening, ma'am. After Iraq, Libya, Syria, and now Iran, India will be on direct US radar sooner or later. In that case, whose side will India Israel stand? Israel will stand on Israel's side. Israel doesn't need to take a side. Israel doesn't need to take a side. Why does Israel have to take a side? India will choose the American side, right? Most likely India will most likely choose to be in the American orbit, which means it is on the Israel's side. So yeah, we know Iraq is gone, Libya is gone, Syria is now ruled by an ISIS terrorist. Now Iran will be taken down. It doesn't mean the Americans will next launch an invasion of India. No, why launch an invasion of India when you can control the country from outside? Why do that? I don't see the Americans launching any even threatening any military operation against India. Nothing. It's all going to very going to be very peaceful. So, Israel will stand with Israel and India will stand with Israel in the US most likely. The scorpion king says Christianity is declining uh with the US being the last western Christian nation in next 2030 years Christianity will be associated with poor African nations which will lead to its declining to its decline its association with the west led to its growth. A long long story of Christianity Christianity is a political religion. Christianity was it it grew artificially in the west through state support because various emperors saw the utility it had in controlling their people and so on and that's why it it grew and today you're absolutely right that Christianity is declining in the west absolutely right when I was a little kid when the pope used to visit some European nation millions of people would line the streets to see to get a glimpse of the pope. Today the pope goes to some country nobody turns up. Not even one person turns up. Christianity is is almost done in the west. The US says the you are right it's the last major western Christian nation the United States and you are right in the next 20 30 years Christianity will be associated with with third world nations which is why and see the people who run Christianity want Christianity to rem to continue to exist and to be relevant somewhere that's why they are targeting nations like India so in Africa yes there are only two major religions left in Africa all the indigenous cultures and religions have been destroy Right. It's either Christianity or Islam. And the next big target of Christianity is India. Yeah. And it's being given red carpet treatment in India. Industrial scale conversions. So I I I agree with you. Scorpion King. Shibam Chhataraj says don't fear for Dharma. They will balconize India. All right. Galliwor says China shared the YJ21 the the missile blatantly with Iran. While we are fully against another angle VCCL in Iran to share YJ21 puts us on our toes. Long range advanced surf SHM says a high long range advanced. What's LSM? Once again, L R A S H M. Okay. Long range anti-ship missile. Okay. Fine. So, YJ21 is an anti-hship missile, right? Y21. It's an hypersonic anti-hship ballistic missile. Okay. Um, what's ang SxN V SSL? What is that? What India? What? What is this? I have no idea what that is. Okay. So, has the chi has China shared why Jon went with Iran? Maybe they did. Okay, fine. Um, don't underestimate understand the severely non Nash game move by China. You don't understand why China possib Okay, let's assume. So I don't know if China has shared the Y21 with with Iran. Let's say they have shared it. Let's say they've given Iran Y21 missiles. How is it a severely non- Nash move by China? You're obviously talking about games, Nash equilibrium, all that. But how is it a non logical and and and bad move by China? By giving Iran a better chance to defend itself against American aggression. Why is it how is it a bad move for China? by China. It's a good move for China, right? And um long range anti-hship missile. Okay. All right. I'm not exactly sure what you're saying, but this makes sense for China to do, right? China's adversary is the US. Iran is a Chinese strategic partner. The Chinese the and China stands to lose nothing if Iran gets this technology. Iran will never use it against China. So it makes sense for a channel to do do this, right? Ashai has become a new member. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Welcome to the channel's membership. I really appreciate it. Okay. Black Panther says, "Does India become a US vasal deal in table of P?" I even if India becomes the US Vasal, I doubt if the Americans will allow India to take P. I think it's still unlikely. HR devices. Please tell me why illegal Bangladeshi issue is not a big issue in national politics. Don't they compromise over national safety? It is an existential threat for India but somehow it's not an issue in national politics. No political party seems to be seems to regard this as a big issue in India. Yeah. I I I don't have an answer for this. I don't have an answer. Millions of illegal Bangladeshi infiltrators staying in India for decades, having children in India. How is this not an existential threat for the nation and civilization of India? How is it not a threat? It's it's it's an existential threat for India for our national security. Why is it not a big issue? Possibly because the people of India don't seem to be to consider it a big issue. If everybody is is aware see because Bangladesh is look look like Indians most Indians don't think right they see a Bangladeshi and they see that they hear the different accent most Indians don't think only with everyone un everything knowing about this will this become a political issue if all Indians become alarmed and they say that if you don't fix this we will not vote for you then only it will become a political issue quicks quicks says if we don't forget or for fors we won't convert all right sir all right pratip kumar roy says west is developing neural link India is fighting for reservations sir how do we connecting and exploit people like shall you I don't know anything about that but yes you see the west is going forward in developing technologies AI neural link whatn not and we are on a race to the bottom who is more backward and who gets backward class or whatever reservations that's that's the problem in India that's the Mao Sutong says, "What do you think of my legacy? I think she is doing a good job and will China ever benefit from this US Iran war? This US Iran war will be detrimental for China's interests if Iran loses and Iran will most likely lose? Iran is not powerful enough to withstand the American onslaught for too long. Right? So, China will not benefit from this. China will this will be detrimental to Chinese interests. He is doing a pretty good job, sure, for his country. What do I think of your legacy? What do I think of your legacy? Well, you set the stage for your policies were terrible. Your policies were terrible for China. You did a great job by taking Tibet from India. India didn't give a India didn't care. Um, but yeah, you expanded Chinese territory. So, that's good. That's been good for China. And overall, your policies were terrible afterwards. They took China backwards. The great leap forward, the green, all that stuff was terrible. The the famines you caused and all. So overall and still you are regarded as one of the great people in China as the founding father of Chinese Communist Party. So your legacy is mixed. Your legacy is mixed. On the one hand you without you China would not be what it is today. On the other hand you could have done much better. Yeah. Sid d says Carlson says India will be Israel's big new greatest ally and Israel will slowly move away from the US as too much negative sentiment around them in the US. It could happen long term. It could happen longterm that way. Yeah. Um but short to medium-term the US and Israel will remain very closely together. Long-term, yeah, it could be that way if India actually becomes a nation of some kind of substance. Then it could be of much utility to a nation to a great powerful and advanced nation like Israel possibly. Pratipik Kumar Roy says, "World's oldest bank, Medi Family Bank, similar to Roshial's ruling class." Yeah, I haven't looked into these things, sir. I I really haven't looked into these things. I know what you're talking about. I You're trying to be You're trying to say that the Jews are behind all of this, but I haven't studied this matters, right? So, I don't know. Sid says, "Why did Hindu kings never try to liberate West Punjab?" Sind from Islamic rule after beating Gaznavids at battle of Bah in 25 lost opportunity. Um we resisted we fought. Papar Raal took back v various parts of India liberated various parts of India from from the Turk occupation. We fought but we were never unified at the time. That was the only only problem. And eventually see don't let's stop blaming our ancestors for these things. They fought. They tried their best. What the problem was that we were not unified at the time. Unification is not that easy. You need a superman to unify subcontinent sized entity, right? Um so if Priti for example had not lost to Guri then he could potentially have unified India. But we lost. He lost right the second battle because he let let Gori go with the first battle of Tarin. So there have been lost opportunities and all but the main problem was was that we were not politically unified under a single emperor. If there was a case history would have been different. History would have been different indeed. My point is let's not blame our ancestors. They tried. They did what they could. They resisted Turkic attempts to invade and occupy India for several centuries. Several centuries for at least 500 600 years. Imagine how much they suffered and how much they paid with their own blood. Right? Sid says I think so-called liberal leftist Hindus are the worst traitors in world history. Even after partition they don't seem to get Yeah. I will not comment about religion sir. I will not comment about any religion. I stay out of these matters. Mahesh Kanan. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you indeed. Alita Kachab says, "We are digitally colonized, technically dependent, culturally alienated, education system rotten to the core. No sign of major reforms. Is there any hope? Possibility of rising as a civilization. There still is hope. There is still the possibility of rising. It will take time. It won't happen next week. It will not happen next 5 years. It may not even happen in the next 20 years. But if we start now, even if we are vasalized, we can still in 20, 30, 40 years rise up and become completely sovereign and a great power again. But we will need great leadership for that. We will need the kind of leader that comes up once in in 500 years or maybe once in thousand years with 1.4 billion Indians. There's somebody around who can do that, I'm sure. So I am still very optimistic. There is still hope. There is still the significant possibility of us rising again. But it will not be a short-term. It won't happen very soon. It's it may take several decades for this to happen. I mean think about it. Chhatraati Shivaji Maharaj after he died it took 80 years for the Maratas to reconquer most of India and liberate most of India. 80 years is a long time right? It's too long for one human being but for us as a civilization it is not a very long time. So on those time scales yes there is hope. Of course there is hope. But it will take time. Jalaj Gaba says with US debt rising to all times high do you think the US that US can trigger a world war as during a war US security economic booms? Um most much of this debt that the US owns is owed to itself. Okay. It's owed to itself. Much of the debt is owed to American banks and American fed various you know governments at various levels and all that's that's the the structure of the debt. Some of it is in is owed to other nations in the forms of treasury bonds and so on. But the US owes this debt in US dollars. The US controls the dollar. The US can make this debt evaporate through various magic tricks. So the US doesn't need to trigger a world war to get rid of its debt. Okay? And a world war is good for nobody because it destroys the world. So I don't think that's on the cards. The scorpion king says, "Is China still a Buddhist nation or culturally Buddhist?" CCP seems to have a soft corner of a Buddhism. Chinese diaspora in the West is converting to Christianity. China is not a Buddhist nation. It has got about 200 million practicing Buddhist. The largest Buddhist population in the world. And China doesn't have a CCP doesn't have a soft cord of a Buddhism. It wants to appropriate Buddhism. Okay? It wants to appropriate it. steal it from India. China says that Buddhism is a is a Chinese religion because it's been in China for 2,000 years. So now it's a Chinese religion. It's trying to steal Buddhism from India. And China showcases its cultural, you know, heritage much better than India. So China is not a Buddhist nation. Most young Chinese don't know the first thing about Buddhism. They say, "Oh, my grandmother practices that that worships this God that you have here." Yeah. And so China is not a Buddhist nation. It's not culturally Buddhist, it's culturally atheist and the CCP simply wants to appropriate Buddhism. You give them the chance, they will even appropriate yoga and everything else. Mahesh Kanan says by attacking Gulf states and closing the state of foremost Iran pulling leverage quickly. It looks like they want to stop the war at any cost. What's your view? Will the war stop before removing regime? Unlikely. The way I see it, the Americans will succeed in the regime change operation. They are just too powerful. The Americans are simply too powerful. Right? So has Iran blocked the state of Hormuz? It obviously will attack Gulf states who are handin glove with the US from their perspective. Has hormuz been been been closed. Uh let let us let's see quickly see what's happening. I'm going to take a quick look at Twitter for a few minutes and we'll let's take a look at this together. Um so my timeline best accounts and all air India cancels flights to London Toronto Frankfurt Paris Chicago flights for 1st March list all so forth so Dant's a and Mr. Modi is talking about something else semiconductor stuff um somebody is talking about Mr. Xang, Professor Jang, Dubai has shut down. Al Maktum International Airport has been shut down. Emirates grounded. Okay. A lot of AI slop you'll see. But it it still gives you information this AI slop. Um what else? JD Vance. You see the politicians doing their flip-flops. Uh Dr. J. Shank has a telecon with Iranian foreign minister say basi this evening. shared India's deep concern about whatever developments and so on. Okay. Um what else do we have? Bizarre discovery. Okay, that's fine. Iranians soft Gulf targets etc. What's Okay, what is trending? Let's see. World War II is trending trending. Um what is this here? Iranian drones strike Ira building in Bahrain. Oh, that's terrible visuals. What else do we have? I don't know what that is. What's What's happening in Thran? Okay. Are you saying Hormuz has been shut down? Let's see. Hormos. Let us see. Has hormuz been shut down. Iran warns Hormuz passage unsafe. So, the straight is practically closed with the IRGC warning vessels. It's unsafe to transit. Okay. Um, okay. That will that will make oil prices shoot up obviously. Official closure. Okay. Hormones has never been closed. We know that. Um. Yeah. So, it's not officially closed yet, but Iran is warning countries now that hormones is dangerous. Essentially, they are announcing the closure of hormones, the straight of hormones. uh that is going to be disastrous for the global economy. It's going to make oil prices shoot up massively. It's going to be bad for India. It's going to be bad for consumers in India. The prices of your tomatoes and potatoes will go up now. Yeah. So, um see Iran doesn't want to stop the war at any cost. The government of Iran wants to survive at any cost. Of course they will, right? What do you expect? Yeah, that's just natural. Uh, so will the war stop before the regime is changed? I think that's unlikely. Of course, I could be wrong and good if I'm wrong, but I think it's unlikely. Kuru Renugu Renoku says great leader came after 30 years India will be too late. Great India coming after 30 years for India will be too late as the world order will stabilize by till then ne past 15 years and upcoming five years are crucial and we lose uh maybe it's a realistic way of looking at things. The crucial time was the past 15 years. Crucial time is the next 5 years. You you're right from you're right. The crucial time is the next five years and the work we should have done to strengthen India and make India immune to vasalization has not been done. Let's see how it goes sir. Let's see how it goes. Let us still be optimistic. Ashtoh Nak says it's clear you're a true expert in this niche. Your confidence and knowledge make every episode must listen. Thank you sir. Thank you very much. I really appreciate your very kind words. Thank you. Which part of the United States are you living in? I am not living in the United States. I'm not. So, not in the US. Okay. All right. I'm living in India. I think it's not some big secret that I'm living in India, not in the US. Anyway, sir, Ash, thank you very much. Thank you very much indeed. The Scorpion King says we should allow dual citizenship so that the diaspora does not lose connection with India. with dual they their children will always be connected with India. Look if India hypothetically becomes a vasal. I think we should welcome dual citizenship uh inner wealth hub. Thank you very much sir. Thank you. Uh Gallor says hold on we're talking about Y21. Y21 long range anti-hship missile sircon happen to be three novelties. US is incapacitated why by defensively as well as offensively can't retaliate sir they in their infinite wisdom will continue dejà vu polabber um the US is kind of behind in hypersonic technology yeah we know that the tiron is way more advanced than anything the Americans have that is a frightfully fast missile right is like Mac 9 12 I don't know frightfully fast. It's It's not ramjet technology. It's scramjet technology. Um yeah. So the US these these are some of the things that that uh the US doesn't have. That's it's kind of behind in that. So they in the infinite wisdom will constru Pearl Harbor. I'm not sure um what the connection to Pearl Harbor is, but I agree with you that the US is kind of behind in these tech in especially in hypersonics. Let me see. I think the Americans do have some hypersonic missile. Let's find out. Okay. Does the US US have hypersonic missiles? It does not have fully operational fielded hypersonic missiles. But that's that's yeah that's uh a drawback for the US. Okay. So forget about intership. It doesn't have any proper hypersonic missiles. They are in the process of developing and testing several programs expected to be deployed by 2526. Well, we are in 2526. We're in 26 now. So yeah, that that's where the US is behind. And I it's it's perplexing they have allowed themselves to fall behind in this manner. But yes, they are behind and that's one of the you could say Achilles heels of the US possibly. But when it when it when you consider the full spectrum of the offensive capabilities of the US, it is not that big of an issue because they can still take out an nation without having hypersonic technology. Okay, Pratiparo Roy is signing out for the night. Thank you sir. Good night to you as well. Thank you. Gira TV says, "Sorry for the weird question. Why do US missile explosions look like fireworks while others just appear as dirty fireballs? I've noticed this difference in recent strikes in Venezuela and now now Iran. So the strikes in Venez the US hardly used any firepower in Venezuela. I think they used some um the US the firepower the US used in Venezuela was mainly machine guns from helicopters and maybe a missile or two you know anti- anti-personal kind of person kind of missiles one or two from helicopters that's it the US basically took Maduro without firing almost a single shot and the kind of explosions and and visuals you see also depend on the frame rate of your camera. If you use 24 frame rate, you see it a certain way. If you see 60 framework, 60 frames per second, you're going to see, you know, um explosions and and u and and and the muzzle flashes of guns very differently. So, it all depends a lot of it depends on the kind of camera you're using, what frame rate you're using. um explosions look way richer when you're using 24 frames per second. They look very different with with atif at 60 or 120 frames per second. Um so there's a lot of factors that go into this. It's a it's not a weird question. It's a really interesting question actually. Right. So it it depends on on the cameras, it depends on the frame rates. It depends on who's filming it. Uh a lot of people see a lot of these videos they come out on social media. And a lot of people when they use phones they put the frame rate at 60 or something. They believe that the higher the frame rate the better the image you get. And maybe some people use it for shooting slow motion videos or whatever. So that's why they keep the frame frame rate at 60 or 120. Depends on the phone. Some phones can't do 120. Some can. So maybe a lot of people are are keeping the frame rates very high. And maybe that's that's causing um you know that's affecting the the way the video turns out to be very interesting question actually. Dir Kamat says I think the lack of proactive aggression by idealistic kings of India after the rise of nonvedic ains ideologies is something we should blame them for. Why are we always on the defensive? Yeah. I mean ainsa see we have to understand what is the relevance of ainsa? What is the relevance of a hinsa in culture and society? A hinsa is relevant when it comes to interpersonal um interactions. Let's say you have a dispute with somebody who is a citizen of your own country. You don't want the dispute to devolve into fighting and killing, right? So when you have a dispute with a with a citizen of your country or with a member of a family, you will use a hinsa obviously. But when it comes to having a dispute with a foreign country, you know, you don't you're not under any obligation to use a hinsa. So let's say you have Muhammad Ghi invading your country and doing all kinds of nasty stuff to your people. Do you use a hinsa for for that person? Do you say that the rules of warfare say I cannot do these things? No. You kill the guy. You you you deal with him. Your objective is to win. But when you have artificial rules that you use in warfare that will put you at a disadvantage, then you're stupid. So um some of these issues have crept into India into Indian society into the mindset and worldview of Indians that we I mean people ask me about humanity. Mr. Modi should not have visited Israel because of humanity. Who cares about humanity in geopolitics? Does anyone care? Does the US care about humanity? Does China care about humanity? Why should we take the contract of of of worrying about humanity? We our prime minister our leader has one job to look out for the national interest of the country and to look out for the interests of the Indian people. That's it. So this ainsa thing and all these matters they they have really messed up India's mindset. Big problem. Goautam Goautam Verhma Dantaluri says despite having great institutes with like with brilliant doctors why are we not contributing significantly to research output because we don't have great institutes most of our inst institutes are great on paper but they're actually trash go to an IIT the budget for IIT must be very high right go to an IIT I'm not naming this society or that I go to an IIT visit the washroom to take a leak you will see washroom is wonderful very nicely maintained washroom very high quality glassware and whatnot go and see their conference room very ultraodderern conference room with air conditioning the best projectors and expensive equipment and all now go to the lab of the IIT the equipment only 30 years old that's the kind of approach we That's an issue that plagues our so-called great institutes. They're great on paper. They have many eminent scientists and re researchers. What imminent work have they done? Actually, I wonder. It's all on paper. India is a nation of things being fantastic on paper, but actually there's nothing of any value that's happening there. The majority of the these brilliant so-called brilliant and eminent scientists and doctors and whoever are pedestrian mediocre people. The majority of them some are great. Some are brilliant. I'm not saying all are mediocre. But those who are brilliant and great, they are like fish out of water because the environment is not conducive for their their brilliance. So there are these deeprooted problems in India that are not being addressed at all. They're all being overlooked, brushed into the carpet and that's why India remains a mediocre nation. Ma sadong says take this as a token of gratitude. I know many of the questions are repeating and annoying but you answer each one with equal enthusiasm. Thank you so much Maong. Thank you so much Ma. Okay. Thank you sir. Thank you very much. Ever Joel Amin says share some of your favorite books currently. I currently I don't have any current favorite books. I I I don't know. Um favorite books currently I'm not reading any current favorite books. I may I'm thinking of reading PG Woodhouse. Should I? I don't know. What am I reading right now? I'm reading Sherlock Holmes books. I it's not a good idea to ask me out book recommendations unless I come prepared because I have read so many books in my life that they all get mixed in my head and and no book stands out for me as such. So currently I'm reading Sherlock Holmes just revisiting it after many many years that's one yeah says is it bad for me to remind you to watch Tumbad? Maybe it's a good distraction for me to watch Dumbad perhaps based on how things are going and what's happening in the world. So thank you for the reminder sir. Adita Aditia R says since the UAE can bypass the straight of hormones blockade using Fujira's port on the Gulf of Oman do you think Iran will actively target Fujira to ensure an old oil choke hold is actually effective? They could. They could. Let's let's take a look at the map and let's figure out what exactly is happening with Fuj. It's one of the uh emirates, right? Fuja. So here we have this. This is the UAE al is up here. Then you have Sharad, you have Dubai, you have Abu Dhabi. Uh where is Ajan? So where is Fujay? Pujira is here. So yeah it kind of uh you can you can bypass Hormos itself the state of Hormones itself if because Puja is out here in the Gulf of Oman and yeah so you are correct geographically it is not u it is kind of not affected by any blockade of the straight of Hormos but any military action that's happening in the straight of Hormos will most likely you know affect Fujira at least directly or indirectly. Uh but let's say Iran wants to completely blockade the state of H for Hormos and ensure that there's no oil coming out then they may definitely target Fujira because Fuja is first of all not very far away from Iran. It's definitely within Iran's range or within the range of Iran's navy missiles and so on. Definitely. So they could do it. They could do it. I'm not saying I'm not advocating for this to happen, but Iran could do that possibly. Yeah. Okay, Black Panther says, "Energy, CM, energy comes from oil and gas until US spur power superpower." Your thoughts? Energy come from oil and gas until US superpower. My thoughts? So, are you saying that the US will ensure that as long as it's a superpower, energy only comes from oil and gas? I don't know about that. It can't prevent other nations from developing new technologies, right? So it's it's not a guarantee and it oil and gas could be a finite resource, right? Eventually the world world may possibly run out of oil and gas. It's a possibility. Um so as long as the US superpower, energy will only come from oil oil and gas. It's not a guarantee. It's not a guarantee. Okay, looks like I have run out of questions from the super chat. So let's one more time take a look at what's happening. Let me just take a look at at Twitter. Give me a second. Okay, let me open a new Twitter tab fresh and let's see at what is happening. Give me a second. Is there something any new development? Okay, we have highrise in Bahrain. Uh some controversy about Modi's Israel visit. Okay, that's fine. Social media backlash. Joy Shankar World War II is being is trending. Some cricket stuff is trending. Let's see. Thran, what is there? Okay. Um, yeah, nothing very new. Okay, maybe there'll be some more developments later on, but I think we can now at this time call it a night for now. So, let me end this live stream here. Thank you very much everybody for your questions and uh let us see maybe I will do another emergency live stream tomorrow depending on how things go whether there are new developments that affect us and so on. So let's see about that. So all right let me end this live stream over here tonight. Thank you very much. It's been five and a half hours blue. Thank you so much for your questions. Keep learning. Keep raising your standards and I'll see you very soon in the next one. Take care. Good night. Good day everyone. Bye-bye.