Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. N. Heat. Heat. [Music] Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome to this special emergency episode. We are discussing Nepal today. I hope everyone's doing great. Let me see quickly who all is there on the live chat. I can see Shashank Shivas the might is right. Nishal Radhimir Putin Suman Shaker Sarangi Iatistic Poor Man Aush Singh Patriotic Itachi Space Abinhat Achara Shashank Shivastav Chaitanya Manjul Manuja Ram Shukla from Kpur Shashank Shivastav Arrow 14. Who else? Subramanyam Swami is here. Well, and it is hensy penguin actually dyank sarbari das Gupta satellite chowi tushar kalborgi tatagat karan Richard artist Boston bread mlavin hello js aeri navin nav kishadwa sang from dargilling hello Arjun a rishikesh zag mo dak hello rahachandraanveda anand vajantri deepikar rohan parik Vikash PJ Gravity Kahi the Indian and everybody else. All right, good to see you all. Thank you so much for being on the live chat and let us see what questions we have. I'll take as many questions as possible. Let's begin with this by Aayush Singh. Aush Singh says, let us uh begin from the basics. Please explain the series of events that took place in Nepal. What's the current status? What are the scenarios for the for the upcoming future? Okay, let's begin from the basics. Nepal was founded in the 1700s. You want to begin from the basics? Uh uh okay, we're going to not go to to the entire history of Nepal. Okay. Uh so past 30 or so years okay there there was the regime change operation in Nepal. Uh there was in the 1990s there was this Mauist insurgency in Nepal and one of the former retired heads of RAW India's RAW I think it was Mr. Dulat or somebody I don't remember who it was but he had said much later that India the government of India at that time supported the Maoists and as a consequence the the monarchy of Nepal was overthrown. Eventually the royal family was wiped out in a very mysterious occurrence one night and ever since that time the Mauists had have been running Nepal. So why would an Indian government support the Mauist who are pro-china? Beats me. It's like asking why did Mr. Neu do so and so things? Why did he give away uh the Cabo Valley of Manipur to Burma? Why did he give away Guadada to Pakistan and so on? There's no explanation. There's no rational logical explanation. So the Indian prime minister of the time supported the Mauist insurgency against the the Nepalese monarchy. As a result, the Maoists won and they were pro-China, not pro- India. So India supported a pro-China uh insurgency. And the Mauists said that their their demand was that their claim was that the Nepalese monarchy was very corrupt. It was exploiting the people blah blah blah all that. So we will come to power and we will clean everything up. That's what they had claimed. So the Mauists came to power and what did they do? 30 years of even more corruption than what they claimed was happening with the with the monarchy. Super super corruption revolving door president prime ministership and and so on. And the Nepalese people were taken for granted and they were taken for a ride. So eventually the people of Nepal obviously were suffering and they could see that the Nepalese politicians were enjoying themselves. They're fattening themselves at the expense of the Nepalese taxpayer. their families are living abroad and so all this was exposed on social media by various Nepalese youngsters I suppose and because all the Nepalese politicians their real their you know secrets were being exposed their luxurious lives and all that without any source of income h all that was being exposed on social media that's the media so they banned social media and because of that um young people in Nepal who are hooked to social media all day doing scrolling reels They got upset and they went in the streets and that is what they call a Gen Z revolt. Now, so it is being said that this is a Gen Z revolt. Gen Z and the Jenzi are upset with corruption. So if they are upset with corruption, why did people try and attack the Pashupatin temple? What does the Pashupatin temple have to do with corruption in Nepal? H why were other temples attacked? There is video footage of people trying to climb the fence to climb the gates of Pashupatin temple. It was thwarted. The attempt was thwarted but there was an attempt to vandalize the Pashupatin temple. The most historic temple in Nepal, Lord Shiva temple. Why would you do that? If you have a problem with corruption. Okay. So the the Jenzi protest starts. Then some pol some policeman in Nepal, some police officer who has family in the US, he orders his police uh boys to to open fire on students. Hm. So apparently some students died tragically. And when something like this happens, even if it's a protest that has nothing to do with the common people's aspirations, when innocent students are killed, everybody gets angry and then more people get involved in the protest just out of anger. He killed an innocent student and that's when opportunistic forces can hijack the protests. Okay. So now it becomes clear that there are various people who are apparently being projected as the next prime minister of Nepal. There is some rapper who is the mayor of Kmando a very very virudently anti-India guy. Okay. Um he was in bed with the Chinese Communist Party formerly and now he's in bed with the American ambassador figuratively or whatever. Hm. So there is that. Then there is this uh Hami Nepal NGO whose uh whose boss or whose head or co-founder or whatever this Gurong person I forget his first name. This gentleman he's not Jenzi he's in his 30s and he has ties with foreign funders. His organization gets lots of funding from other other countries. You can guess which countries it will be and so on. So there are all these forces, all these things that are now coming up. There is some arms dealer who is also funding something or the other. So the point is that it started with something legitimate possibly. Gen Z was upset, the students were upset and then it devolved into chaos and then opportunistic forces hijacked this thing. They attacked the Supreme Court of Nepal. They burned the whole Supreme Court. People who had cases pending for God knows how many years. they will never get justice now. Yeah. Is that how you end corruption? Is that how you end corruption? By attacking temples, you you got to end corruption. And then obviously uh the houses of various politicians have been attacked and some have been burned and God knows what happened. Some kind of violence. Some people may have lost their lives and and that sort of thing. So this has nothing anymore to do with Jenzi. the people who are now being projected as the next leader of leaders or leaders of of Nepal, they all have ties with the United States. Okay. And Anurag is saying that Christian missionaries attacked Pashupatina temple and this Yeah. Okay. And this so-called Deependra Deependran or whatever his name is this mayor of Kathmandu, this fellow, he is a proponent of greater Nepal. He wants Indian territory to be part of Nepal. Yeah. So this is the situation right now. This is a classic regime change operation. This is a classic color revolution situation and the Americans have perfected this. They have done this over and over again in so many countries. It started with the poppy revolution and the tulip revolution and whatnot in the early 2000s in Central Asia places like Kyrgystan and whatnot. Yeah. Balendra du du. Thank you. Balendrasha. Balendra is that mayor of of Katwando. So this is another color revolution. So that's the current status. Right now it is chaos. It is still chaos. There is still all the dust in the air. So so to say in the next few days things will become more clear who is now going to be projected as the next leader of Nepal. And in case what I am saying is correct that the US is behind this then in the next few days you will see a US puppet coming to power in Nepal. Some young person who has connections with the US either some exjustice of Supreme Court very easy to see connections there or some rapper or some former news anchor or some NGO person. So that is the situation. So what is going to happen now? What is going to happen in the future? That's what is going to happen. The moment we see who is now being projected as the next next prime minister and who is placed as the next prime minister of Nepal, that will clarify everything. This is not some this this started as something that was genuine. The students were frustrated sure but it has been taken in a totally different direction and this is now a regime change operation. And who does it affect? That also we'll discuss. Who does it affect? Does it affect India? Does it affect China? Well, KP Sharma Ooli was very pro-China, very anti-India. So, this is a setback to China because he was China's agent. The prime minister of Nepal was a Chinese agent. He has been ousted. Now there's a US agent who is going to be in power. So, you see who suffers at the end of the day. My dear Nepali people, you suffer. No matter who is in power, he's always the agent of some somebody else. Who is going to be your agent? The people of Nepal, you also should have an agent, right? So this is going to solve nothing for Nepal. When you have a prime minister or a leader of the country who serves a foreign power, you people, you're going to suffer. Nothing will change for you. Nothing. And this prayer, who is this pria? This prayer is saying that whatever happens in Nepal happens at the behest of raw. Don't spread rumors. Sorry, I'm going to have to remove you from this channel. I don't need people like you here. So see perhaps this penna person is a Nepalese person and you can see how much virulent hate there is for India today in Nepal. Why is it like this? It's because people have been brainwashed in Nepal. These Mao has so been in power for 30 years, 30 plus years. They have been brainwashing the people into believing that India is the enemy because they have been serving China. The Mauists have been serving China. So they have been brainwashing people from the from a very young age that India is the enemy. India is the nation that has been oppressing Nepal for for god knows whatever time right so young people are misled and they have this hatred for India. If you see comments on social media, Nepalese citizens, many of them, not I'm sure not all of them, many of them have the same hatred for India that Pakistanis have. The only difference is that there is no religious angle there. So that's the situation. India has mishandled the Nepal situation the past 30 years. In 2015, the why was there a need to do a blockade of Nepal? So Indian politicians are also to blame for this situation. Uh and yeah, so that's where we are. Okay, now we'll take some more questions. Um, Heny Penguin says that Sushila Ki doesn't seem to be a stood. The sto seems to be Balin. Balin is a clearly a student. See this Balin guy, the mayor of Kathmandu, he was like I said slight somewhat inappropriately perhaps. He was in bed with the Chinese. H he was a Chinese agent. What does it mean that he he was a Chinese agent? It means that he was getting money from the Chinese. The Chinese were paying him to be their agent. Now you can say that he has been visited by the American ambassador and now he is friends with the Americans. What does it mean? This guy is up for sale. Whoever pays more, he will work for them. That's the kind of guy this bal person is. You think he will work for the people of Nepal? Whoever gives more money, it's like an IPL auction. This guy here here is up for sale. Who is willing to pay more? He will work for them. He's a freelancer. Okay. So Balin clearly Balin is is is a stoogge. He is not working for the interests of Nepal. What you want? Forget about India. Let's say Nepal has a problem with India. That's your that's entirely your your matter. You are a sovereign nation and you can have a problem with whoever you feel like. It's it's entirely your choice. But what's important is that whoever is your leader, that person should serve you, your country and your people. You should not serve a foreign power. Nepales like to say a they keep saying that you know we never came under the British oppression occupation. We never came under the East India Company. We were never under the British Raj. Well, what is this happening right now? Your politicians are serving foreign masters. Ours are not today. You see the difference? So Balin is a stoogge. No question. I don't know about Sushi Kark. I haven't I haven't looked into her anticedants. We will see about that. We'll see. Vladimir Putin says many liberals were demanding these protests in India also. They have already brainwashed some people on X. What should the Indian government do with these individuals? I'll tell you why is it so easy to brainwash people? Because the entire education system is controlled by these liberals, our entire education system is controlled by them. If you look at higher education, if you look at colleges, universities, if you look at something like the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, do you know how how anti-India it is? Do you know all the IIT departments of humanities? How anti-India they are? How Hindu they are? When you have when you have professors and teachers like these who teach children, children are impressionable. When you are 15, 16, 18, 20, 25, you're impressionable. When somebody with authority teaches you something and says that India is an oppressive state, you'll believe it. That's how they are making young pliable people the Gen Z they are making them the canon foder for these revolutions anti-India revolutions right that is what's being done so these people they've already grown up through the education system they already believe all these things and when you start this movement on social media on X or whatever they will go and sign up for being soldiers so what should the government and then you have these liberals who are these liberals These are aspiring Zalinskis. See this Balin guy is a Nepal is aspiring Zalinski. H he's an aspiring Zalinski from Nepal. There are plenty of aspiring Zilinskis in India at very high positions, lower positions etc etc etc. These are your liberals. They have they are not liberal by any means. They just said that I am liberal which means I am anti-India, anti-government, anti-ivilization and I will being liberal means you are on somebody's payroll essentially in India that's what it means when somebody says I'm liberal it means I am either on someone on a foreign country's payroll or I want to be on a foreign country's payroll I'm an aspiring zalinski that's what it means what should the government of India do about this keep a watch on these people and keep track of where the money comes from how much money is coming in where is it going keep track of everything and if if something nefarious is is is attempted clamp down on it that's what I would say law and order right uh Boston okay we're not discussing listen we discussing Nepal today please please let's not go here and there and everywhere we're discussing Nepal D shukla says do you think Nepal will become Hindu Russia right now it's becoming a American vasal right now that's the situation. Hinduashtra, what Hinduashtra becoming an American vasal right now. Uh can Bhutan be the next target? We'll have to see about that. McLean says all of our neighbors had regime change in the last 5 years. Is something big coming from us? And now this this is an important question. What's happened in the past five or so years? In 2022, you had the first regime change operation. Uh there was west Pakistan Imran Khan who was pro-China was ousted and this Sharif fellow this little Sharif guy this much he came to he was put in the hot seat obviously the army is running the show but Sharif is put in the hot seat and he's an American stoogge uh he also tries to meet Xiinping and go to Beijing or Tanjin or whatever but he's an American stoogge so the first regime change operation happens there in 2022 in West Pakistan Pakistan. Then last year there was a regime change operation in Bangladesh which turned Bangladesh into East Pakistan. Okay. So there's a regime change operation in Bangladesh and uh Shazin is ousted and this Muhammad Yunus, this little Muhammad Inus, he's put in the hot seat and the army is running the show. Now there's Nepal. In Nepal also we're going to have some Balain or some some whoever it is is going to put into into the hot seat and that person will serve the US agenda again. So you know what's happening? India is being ring fenced. We our our great strategic experts, they like to talk about the Chinese string of pearls, right? Well, the real issue is not the Chinese string of pearls. It is the American ring of thorns, fence of thorns the Americans are building around India, East Pakistan, West Pakistan, Nepal. Uh the Taliban are also on the American payroll. Even though Taliban are positively inclined towards India, then they will try Maldi. They'll try Bangladesh there's also there's also Myanmar going on Myanmar this is civil war in Myanmar project Kukiland for Christ who started that the US started that so so all of that they are encircling India they are their objective is to contain India and they may attempt a regime change operation in India in the coming weeks or months Bidori says shouldn't India fast we discussing sir we discussing Nepal today Shankar Vik says is uh do you think India have not pursued a strong strategic military or economic alliance with Nepal back in the early thousand 2000s knowing full well the Chinese intent? Listen in the 1990s the Mauists it was known were a communist guerrilla force. They were funded by China. And yet the Indian prime minister of that time, whoever he was, he supported the Maoist insurgency against the Hindu Rajantra of Nepal. And because of Indian support more than Chinese support, the Maoist terrorists won. This Pratunda fellow, he used to be a Mauist terrorist. So India itself pushed Nepal into the arms of the Mauists. H not today's India that India and that prime minister that fellow whoever it was right that is what happened now in the 2000s we had who did we have who would until 2004 we had Mr. Wajpay's government I'm not sure what Mr. Wajp's foreign policy was okay I am not very clear about that um and then we had the 10 years of Dr. Manm Singh what was the 10 years of Dr. Dr. Man Singh do you think that they were pursuing uh national interest prioritizing policies in India during the 10 years of Dr. mon Singh do you think the national interest was prioritized do you think India's foreign policy was robust do you think India's defense policy was robust nothing was robust it is alleged it is alleged that India was up for sale at the time alleged alleged alleged okay so yeah India did not pursue the right policy with Nepal in the 2000s the government of India knew exactly what the Chinese were doing no nothing even in the 2010s what kind of policy would be would you pursue with Nepal I don't know what so yeah there we have it u Akar says Nepal has become a hub for ISI CIA and Chinese agents becoming a liability from a hyper realist lens it would be prudent for India to have Nepal merge into India like Kim did I think it it will be better if Nepal remains a sovereign nation I'll tell you And obviously Nepal should not be under the goddamn Maoists, these terrorists. Nepal ideally should be a Hindu Rajantra. But it will be better for Nepal if it stays a sovereign nation with the same relationship that we have currently open borders and same people. Why? Because the moment Nepal is absorbed into India, it comes under secularism and then you will have a million Bangladeshes entering Nepal. You will have a million Christian missionaries entering Nepal in Nepal will be ruined. Whatever little culture they've been able to preserve Hindu culture I think it'll be good if if it if if it remains if it is preserved instead of coming under sec Indian secularism Indians I'll tell you what India is the world's most hindophobic nation you people may not realize it because Indians we we live in La La Land Hindus have more rights in the United States than in India Hindus have more rights in equal rights in Europe than in India Okay, India is the world's most Hindu phobic country. Hindus have more rights outside of India than inside India. You want the same thing to happen to Nepal. Your constitution discriminates against you Hindus. Your laws discriminate against you. Your government policies discriminate against you, but you people don't realize it because you're goddamn blind, right? So, do we want that to happen to Nepal? Do we want a million Bangladeshes in Nepal? Do you want uh churches coming up all over Nepal in in place of Hindu temples? H I don't want that. I think it'll be good if Nepal remains a sovereign nation with robust excellent civilizational and and overall ties with India and ideally it should be a Hindu Raj tantra not a goddess ma godamn maestinfested hell hole that's that's what will be good for Nepal. Uh Pratt Dhana says India and China look helpless against American regime change and operations. Why is that? Because the Americans have perfected how to do this. And see the the way things are right now. See if you have a nation that is your friend and a regime change operation is attempted there. Well, historically you would have simply sent your army and ended this nonsense. But today if you send your army then the entire international community will condemn you and impose sanctions on you that you are interfering in the sovereign affairs of in the internal affairs of a sovereign nation. So you can't do anything because otherwise you'll face all these consequences. Uh the Chinese the Chinese also can't do a thing as you can see because right now it is a pro-China government that has been dismantled. What are the Chinese doing? Staying out of it. They're waiting and watching. They also have a common border. The Tibet Nepal border is there, right? Chinese aren't doing anything. The Americans are so powerful. People don't realize how powerful the Americans are. Look at Taiwan. Look at Taiwan. It's It's in China's backyard. What does China desire more than anything else? More than anything else, China desires Taiwan. Taiwan is in China's backyard. China has a the world's largest navy. China has extremely modern armed forces allegedly. So why isn't China taking Taiwan? Because the Americans are so powerful that even in China's backyard, China can't take Taiwan. People don't realize how powerful the Americans are. So that's the situation. If India or China attempt, let's say hypothetically India attempts to intervene in Nepal and oust all these foreign forces, the Americans and the and the EU and the so-called international community will immediately impose all kinds of sanctions on India. India will be condemned in the UN security council. India will be portrayed as an aggressor the way Putin is ported as an aggressor and so much more. India will be vilified. It'll hurt India very badly. That's why India stays out of this. Forget about all of that. Look at Manipur. What's happening in Manipur? An invasion by cookies. Is India doing anything about it? The moment you take action against these terrorists who have come with women and children, the the world will say that India is violating human rights of its own citizens. Even though cookies are not our people, even in our own territory, right? India is is right now ho how when was the last time the prime minister went to Manipur why is he staying out of it why has he not spoken about Manipur his hands are tied you see that's how powerful the Americans are forget about Nepal in India itself we have problems we have industrial scale Christian conversion happening across India what is the government of India doing the moment the government of India tries to stop it India will be labeled as a nation that that lacks religious freedom and all kinds uh various actions will be taken against India. So this is how these people operate the Americans. They try to destroy civilization. So India and China are currently when it comes to Nepal at least we are helpless. We're staying out of it. Shasah. Well, thank you so much sir. That's so kind of you. Thank you. No sir. No, no, no, no, no, no. Taran Tapa says, "Time for a separate North Bengal state for national security concern." North Bengal. Why North Bengal? I'm not sure what you're referring to. I'm looking at the map here. North Bengal. North of Bengal. You have Yeah, you have beh. Okay. So now further questions uh Amisha G today we'll discuss Nepal. We'll we can take these questions on the weekend. Uh okay Amisha is asking what is India's official stand on the Nepal situation? Uh should we close our borders with Nepal as of now? Right now right now what is the stand? I think the prime minister of India Mr. Modi he had tweeted I think yesterday or day before yesterday that whatever is happening is terrible. the violence it needs to end and beyond that we have said nothing. So our official stand right now is that we will stay out of it. We'll wait and watch. We'll wait and watch. That is our stand. Uh see generally when these things happen the government of India maintains extreme calm. It uh its statements are very mature, very restrained. behind the scenes maybe we may be doing something perhaps uh but uh officially we'll be very restrained and very mature and we'll urge for calm we'll urge for peace we'll urge for quiet we'll urge for a peaceful resolution to whatever issues are existing and whatever has developed that's what we would say should we close our borders with Nepal as of now uh it's something that could be on the table perhaps depending on how things go um we'll have to close borders only in very specific situations So if there is a huge influx of people coming from Nepal in case there is a tremendous amount of violence and people are fleeing Nepal and millions of people want to come into India suddenly that would be a problem but right now I don't think there's any need for the government of India to close the borders unless there's a situation where the ISI is pushing in terrorists from Nepal or something and that sort of thing has kind of happened in the past but uh right now I think there's no need to close the borders uh we will obviously reassess the situation once the new leader puppet leader of Nepal will be announced and then we'll see what their stance is towards India whether they are being uh hostile whether they are being friendly what is their stand and then we'll have to see how how how things go because see the thing is that Nepal in India we have an open border as everyone knows and the people of Nepal can come to India without a visa no need for a visa they can live in India they can work in in India just like Indians they're treated essentially just like Indian citizens except for the fact that they and vote. Um I'm sure there are some other restrictions also but otherwise we the we are the same right and the most important thing is that Nepali citizens can serve in the Indian armed forces just like Indian citizens. Uh so if now there's a pro- US regime in Nepal okay and they have a very strongly anti-India stance and we'll have to be very careful about all these things. So we'll have to see going forward how it is. Right now we wait and watch and we reassess after a while. S ready says he means darling. In that case I understand. Sure. Poor man says Nepal, Myanmar, Bangladesh, Pakistan, everywhere the same story. Can they try the same in India? Maybe not regime change but regime degrade. Look, I'll tell you what. You're right. We are being encircled a fence of thorns around India. An American fence of thorns. East Pakistan, West Pakistan, U Myanmar, now Nepal, four countries, four of our neighboring countries uh and and Myanmar is in civil war and it's spilling over into Manipur. Manipur is is a crisis. Manipur is an invasion by foreign foreign squatters into India and those foreign squatters in India in Manipur they have no allegiance to our culture, civilization, history or country. Even if they have other cards, it's a big problem. Now we have Nepal. So the question that poor man is asking is can they try the same thing in India? Maybe not regime change, but maybe a regime degrade. So look, first of all, understand this. The Americans don't like Prime Minister Modi. He's the only world leader who has stood up to the US. Ever since Trump unleashed his war of terror on the world, economic war of terror, the the the the tariffs, the war of tariffs on the world, only one country has stood up to the US. It's India. Everybody else has negotiated it. We also try to negotiate. Okay. But the demands the Americans made were unacceptable. So today the media is saying that you know Mr. Modi is being very obstinate. He's being very egoistic. Just bow down to Mr. Trump a little bit. Nominate him for a Nobel Prize. Accept that Trump has some had some some some participation in the in the park the ceasefire with Pakistan. Accept these things and everything will be fine. That's it. What's what what is the truth really? What is the truth? The truth is that the Americans want India to open up the entire market to American goods, including the agriculture sector, including the dairy sector. If we open that up, all our industries will die. Everybody will be out of a job and we will be a vasal state. So we are saying no and we we are not accept agreeing to this and that's why the Americans are deeply unhappy with Mr. Modi. They know that if somebody else whoever whoever that may be whoever they know Americans know that if somebody else comes to power one of their preferred politicians then India will be very happy to immediately become vasalized. So America wants a regime change in India. They want Mr. Modi to go. It is beneficial for them because they will gain a very major vasal. So a military coup is out of the question in India because a military coup simply can't work in a country like India. So what's the other options? The other option is is a regime change operation. So they can try a regime change operation. They they've been look they've been playing the game of subnational diplomacy in India. Uh aligning with various regional political parties, hypothetical regional political parties and so on. Okay, I'm not naming anybody. There could be some or the other. whatever it is, they have been playing this game for quite some time. The Americans have been trying to exploit the the the the divisions that the British created in society and to to widen the divisions, to fund various NOS's, to fund various media outlets, to fund various political parties, to fund various YouTube influencers and fund god knows what else. And the objective is to create an ecosystem that will eventually overthrow Modi. So, they will try their best. I assure you of that. regime change or regime degrade? No, not regime degrade. Regime change. They will try that in the coming who knows days. Uh Udg, thank you so much sir. Thank you. Adi okay this is nothing to do with Nepal. So let's not discuss this. Uh Pranjal Chasi said I are hot beds hot beds for international professor. Absolutely right. Absolutely right. I was expected to write a drama for exam saying how government mismanaged COVID lockdowns and paint them in a very negative light. I tried a mixed approach. I got bad grades. This is the problem with the IITs. What is the government of India doing? This is the Indian Institutes of what? Technology, right? Not humanities, not sociology. This is the Indian Institute of Technology. Why do you have humanities departments? Why that that funding that goes to the IIT it is earmarked as science funding but a significant amount of that amount of that is spent on these humanities departments and the humanities departments and the IITs immediately I have been saying this for how many years I have shown on my live streams the kind of research these IIT professors are publishing all anti-India research all hindophobic research cast this cast that cast oppression India is a cast cast Just cast cast cast. Is that what the IITs are supposed to do? The government of India is sleeping on the wheel when it comes to the education system and these IITs and the humanities departments. The humanities departments are snake pit snake pits of leftists. That's the problem. That's the issue. Now I'm not saying all I professors are are like that. I've had an IIT professor from IIT Mandi right uh Dr. Dr. Surya Prakashupya who came on my podcast great guy so he's not like that but most of these IIT humanities departments are snake pits of leftists so the best thing is stop the humanities in the IIT this is technology I Indian institute of technology they need to end all of this if somebody wants to learn the humanities go to a social department somewhere why we join the IIT we want pure techni we want pure engineers in societies and if some students have this desire to to expand their knowledge and broaden their their horizons, they can do it in their own spare time. India needs to end the humanities departments in the IITs. How many times do I have to keep repeating this? We are digging our own grave. Big problem. So, Prunal, I'm I'm I'm grateful to you for for sharing this personal story of yours. Sumib Chri well thank you so much sir um Dvanchkumar says I think Nepal now may be a military base that the US wants from us hey we'll see about that yeah see that could happen so let's wait and watch let's see how the situation evolves my assessment is that in the next few days a new US puppet will come to power in Nepal there are many there are many Indian uh strategic analysts who are saying you know what that not every not every revolution is a regime change operation or a color revolution done by the US. We need to be more mature in assessing what's happening in Nepal. I mean what nonsense. First of all when something like this erupts you need to keep quiet for a couple of days and assess what's happening. Look at the patterns. Did you see me tweeting on day one that this is that this is that no I kept quiet for two days. You have to keep quiet for a couple of days. see the signs, see the patterns, assess the situation, then open your big mouth and speak. Right? First two, three days I was quiet. I did not say a word about Nepal. Uh but yeah, now it is clear this is an American mediated regime change operation. No question about it. Some people are still saying no, it's a Jenzi protest. It started as a Jenzi protest. Now what are the Jenzi saying? It has nothing to do with us with us anymore. That's what they are saying. It's been hijacked by opportunistic forces, by deeper, more sinister forces. U so if Nepal in the next few days sees uh an American puppet coming to power, then you may have American military bases in Nepal. It may happen very likely in that in that in that case. Yeah. So then it will be something that will be used to to potentially intimidate India as well as China at the same time. So we'll see. King Charles says US dist west but still why western narrative matters. The western narrative is the US narrative. It's the US narrative. Okay. It's not the western narrative. It is the US narrative. Suspect Jenna says if the why is the US so successful and why can't India do such operations? Okay. How do you do such operations? Tell me how is the US doing the operations? They first identify people who are potential traitors to the country. So if you want to target Nepal, you look at people who are already working for China. H and then you approach them. Hey, you're working for China. I know, I understand. Don't worry, I'm not here to to hurt you. I know you are working for China. How much are they paying you? Okay, let's I'm sure you cannot tell me. So, let me say let me assume that the Chinese are paying you this much. Listen, I'll pay you three times the money. And your sister, I will give her admission in Harvard. And your nephew, I'll give him admission in Princeton. Okay? And your bank balance, we will have it in London. So, we'll pay you much more than China. Don't worry, you work for us. And that's how they they they identify people and put them on their payroll. They will have journalists on their payroll. They will have uh politicians on their payroll. They will have mayors on their payroll. They may have people who work in certain institutions of the government on their payroll. They create a whole network of people like this. They uh they start NOS's with with their funding. To do all this you need very deep pockets and you need to know how to identify traitors and and approach them. Now do does India want to work with people who are traitors to Nepal maybe let's say for the sake of chanakaniti let's work with evil people for some time okay fine to to achieve a good objective let us do some let let us engage temporarily with some bad people okay maybe now the problem with this bad people these traitors is that they the only thing they want is money and the moment the Americans or the Chinese come to know that India is paying this guy this much. They will double the money. We'll keep on doubling the money. They have deeper pockets than India. See, so you to understand that we we have limitations. Our money is to be used for larly bha yoja right not for all these big things. So explore worlds as our next. Okay. Thank you very much for the fascinating uh suggestion sir. Thank you. Okay. Dariling sidi kuri. I get it. I get it. Okay, I get it. Right. What else do we have? Uh Nikesh Dahul says as a Nepali person, I think we are suffering from exclusionist policies in since the Neu regime. Imagine the Gujarati king had succeeded in other entire other Indian regions were against Gujarat like like now Nepal. I understand the perspective of the Nepalese people completely. The Nepal the the Nehu government was anti Nepal. King Thrian Tribuhan wanted to join India and and Nehu told him to get lost and maybe it was a good thing for Nepal because otherwise Nepal would have been secularized just like everything else in India and and then the government of India in the 1990s whoever that prime minister was he unleashed a Mauist terrorist insurgency on Nepal he he he aided and abetted that and that's why you have the Mauist politicians the super corrupt Maoist politicians who have been ruling your country for the past 30 plus years, 30 30-ish years, right? All thanks to that Indian government. First it was Neu, then it was a descendant of Neu who did this. We also suffered from the same people by the way. Okay? So I it would be incorrect for the people of Nepal to hate Indians. We have nothing against you. We would like you to succeed and be happy. It is certain politicians who have messed up the whole thing. They messed up things for Nepal, Indian politicians. But they messed it up for us also. We also suffered for decades under the same politicians. So I don't understand why Nepal have to hate Indians for that or India for that. Hate the politicians who messed everything up. We also hate them, right? Those magnificent politicians who did so much harm to us, to us as well as to you understand. All right. uh Apurva says how long before we can start trying the same what regime change not going to happen you need very deep pockets for that the Americans will always have deeper pockets and what's the point so India won't be doing that um okay Trump says says Makavin Trump said on truth social he will try to continue to he will continue to negotiate with India and Prime Minister Modi finally responded to him and the then the protest started in Nepal these things related everything is related related. See on the 5th of September Trump had put on truth social he had put a post on truth social in which he said that we have lost India to China and Russia we have lost India that was 5th of September what happened on 6th September next day the protest started in Nepal clearly it's connected and the US doesn't like Modi the US is very upset with Modi that he has dared to stand up to us. They want Mr. Modi gone. They want a different leadership in India. They want some preferred politician of theirs to be in power in India. Right? Uh so all of this encircling of India, the objective is to destabilize India in the long run. It's to contain India. It's to prevent India from growing by having all these destabilizing factors all across all around India on every border. And if you if you take Nepal then you can also destabilize China potentially with that. So it's it's like killing two birds with one stone. So all of this is interconnected. All of this. Madura Majunar Mandal says what should Barat's ideal strategy be right now given that all our neighbors are being controlled by a predatory US? Our strategy right now should be to to clean up our internal problems because see you can't control what happens outside on territory that is not your sovereign territory. When it comes to Burma it's not our sovereign territory and it's being messed up. When it comes to East Pakistan, West Pakistan, not our territory. So we can't control what happens there. Nepal same thing. So what happens outside of India we can't control but at least within India we need to clean up our act. There are so many problems in India which can contribute to pro to bigger problems like regime change. All of that needs to be looked into. That's number one. all the traitors who all the all the aspiring zealinskies need to be need to be identified and need to be uh let's say defanged in a completely legal transparent manner. So whatever dubious foreign funding is flowing into their accounts from wherever that needs to be tracked ideally stopped right confiscate that money and uh whatever I mean deal with these people uh as as best appropriate um secondly all of this uh all of this funding that's for flowing into India god what was billions or trillions of dollars for industrial scale conversions that needs to end next all the foreign occupiers of India needs to be thrown out of India. All the Bangladeshies, the 100 million Bangladeshes and Pakistanis and cookies and whatnot, throw them out of India, please. The burden on the Indian taxpayer will be significantly reduced. There will be more breathing space for Indians in India. That needs to be done. And most importantly, we need to grow our economy. Whatever it takes, the economic growth should continue whichever way. Right? All of these things we need to do. And of course take care of border security, strengthen the armed forces and make sure that nobody can dare to you know try any misadventure with us. All of these things need to be done at this time at this time when we are encircled. Look it may sound like it's a very bad time for India. The US is against us. But ask yourself why is the US against us? It's because we finally matter now. Imagine if Dr. Manm Singh was still in power. Do you think the Americans would be against us? No. They would be very happy with us. They would have only kept 15% tariffs on us. We would have been America's good friend because we would have been a good good little boy. Today we are not little good little doggy anymore. We are standing up. The Americans are they see that as a problem. So because we are doing well that's why they are against us. If we were doing poorly then nobody would care about us. So yeah. So there we have it. geopolitical dub says why didn't the US set up a military base in Nepal from their perspective the base would be useful is it as it contains both India and China is it because Nepal's it's because Nepal is landlocked how do you set up a base in a sovereign country to it's not like okay I want to build a construct a building there so I'll go and construct a building there if it is not your country if it's a sovereign country you need permission right from the You need permission from the local government, from the Nepalese government. Now the Nepalese government has been a Mauist, a set of Mauist governments the past 20, 30 years who have all been in the pocket of China. So how do you expect the US to get permission to build a military base there? Not going to happen, right? Simple logic. There you have it. Uh Chiag says what can these small puppets being set up around India do to India? What is their strategic role? Is the answer to all this just economic growth and hence military hard power to control? What's the purpose of all of these puppets that you're setting up? Why why are they doing this? See if they don't have puppets around India in the subcontinent then there is no way to immediately get things done in the region. So you need puppets. So initially the the Americans they need a deal with the Taliban the DHA accord which has secret clauses and the Taliban allegedly is being paid a stipend of between 40 to$100 million in cash every week by the Americans. So that is one piece of the p puzzle taken. Okay. It's it's said. Then 2022 they did Pakistan. So Pakistan is a US vasal now. Then 24 Bangladesh now Nepal. So you are setting up all the all the pieces of the chessboard of the of the jigsaw puzzle around India. Why? Why do that? What is the strategic role? Each one of the pieces of the puzzle has different strategic roles. Pakistan can unleash terrorism on India whenever the Americans tell them to. The Pakistanis they did terrorism against India for decades. all funded and financed by the Americans and that caused so much trouble to India. It destabilized Jammu and Kashmir. It destabilized Punjab. It caused so much agony and suffering to the people. It it it lowered our GDP growth significantly. India was always on the back foot and so on. So Pakistan serves that purpose. Pakistan serves the purpose of nuclear blackmail. Pakistan if the Americans decide can be turned into India's Ukraine, a nuclearpowered Ukraine. So that is the role that Pakistan plays. Bangladesh or East Pakistan they can be used to to to push terrorists into the far east of India into Manipur, Manipur, Tripura, uh Misoram. From Tripur and Misoram the terrorists can be made to come into Manipur which is the one of the few Hindu Hindu states left. Little bit of Hindu people are still there in Manipur. Apart from Assam, only Manipur has some Hindus. So we want to end end Hinduism right? Obviously Hinduism is evil. So send terrorists through Bangladesh into Misoram into Tripura. Have them go to Manipur and and join forces with the cookie terrorists. So Bangladesh can play that role. Bangladesh can keep on pushing more Bangladeshes into East Bengal into West Bengal sorry into West Bengal and from the West Bengal they can go all across India even in Jammu. So Bangladesh can play that destabilizing role. So you have East Pakistan, West Pakistan. We understood Taliban they their objective is to contain China. That's what that's the deal. And then you have Nepal. So Nepal by turning that into US vasal state. Now you can have Pakistani terrorists fly into Kathmando then turning into Nepales shaving the beards and getting a Nepali uh documents and then walking into India and from there they can destabilize India or you can have spies coming into India from Nepal in the future or maybe you can have Nepalese anti-India elements infiltrate the Indian armed forces because Nepali citizens can can u can join the Indian armed forces. You can do so many things. Do you understand the different roles each each different strategic roles each of these assets plays? So what is the answer to all of this? The answer to all of this is everlasting vigilance. Ser vija vigilance. You never sleep. You always keep your eyes open and you're always vigilant. And yes, economic growth and military growth. Okay. What else do we have? Mike is right says whom should I a Nepalese vote Balain Rabi or Kuman Gish Singh I think you need to have your Rajandra back you need to have your king back all Balin Balin is a Chinese stoge who is turned a US stoogge I don't know who Ramen and G Singh are I'm not sure okay so I I cannot say about that the best thing for you is to have your monarchy back whatever was said about them they are corrupt blah blah blah they are far better than the these these these people that you have day. That is my opinion. You don't have to take it. I am obviously not Nepali. So I I can only put an opinion across. At the end of the day, it is you people who have to decide what happens to your country. My simple suggestion to you is recommendation to you is you are a sovereign nation. So if you are a sovereign nation, whoever leads Nepal has to serve the country and the people of Nepal, not foreign forces. This balin fellow, he was a Chinese agent who is now an American agent. Why would you vote for a person like that? Why? Forget about whether he's anti-India or not. But he should be pro Nepal at least. You need to think critically and understand which of these politicians is pro Nepal and which of these is not pro Nepal. How do you find out? Look at who is funding them. Look at their social media. Who are they meeting? Is he meeting with the US ambassador? Is he meeting with Chinese agents? If he has an organization, NGO, who are the funders? The funders are listed on the page, right? Do a little bit of due diligence. The moment there is foreign funding, it is guaranteed that this is a person who is supported by foreigners, who is funded by foreigners. And funding is never free. Nobody gives money for nothing. If they are getting funding from abroad, it means they are taking their orders also. Who should a Nepalese vote for? You should ideally I would say vote for your king and get the king back and get rid of the vote. No more voting. Okay. Nishb says, I think we need to wake up at least in Sri Lanka before something like this happens in that country. How do you know something has not happened? Who is the who who is the rul who's the prime minister or whatever of of Sri Lanka right now? President of Sri Lanka. Uh let's find out, shall we? Let's let's let's do this together. Okay, let's find out before something goes wrong in Sri Lanka. We need to wake up. Let's see who is president of Sri Lanka. Anura Kumar Danayak. This is the president of Sri Lanka. Okay. So, let's look into this gentleman. Uh what are his anticedants? What does the BBC have to say have to say about him? A former Marxist. Well, well, well, well. A former Marxist. Now, has he does he have any connections with the World Bank, the IMF, all that? Okay, I will not do all the research right now because it will take too much time. My point is just do a little bit of searching about the person. Former Marxist is a huge red flag right away. Then does he have any connections with the World Bank, the IMF? Does he have any relatives who study in the US or are US citizens or UK citizens? U does he does he have any residence in a foreign country? Does he perhaps have a foreign passport? Does he have bank accounts in a foreign country? Look into these things. Many of these things you'll find out. So you know okay uh let us see. Ara Mana says if the US CIA deep state is behind the chaos in Nepal then why does the US want to topple communist government which was already anti-India? At some extent it does add some leverage for India. The government was pro-China my friend. I mean do I have to explain that 2 plus 2 equal to 4 equals to 4? It may have been an anti-India government but it was a Chinese it was a pro-China government. The US wants a government that is both anti-India and anti-China. Do you understand? I hope that explains the situ situation. These Mauists were all funded by China. They were all pro-China. That's also a problem for the US. They want something that is both anti-India and anti-China. It has to be only pro- US. That's what they want, sir. Okay. Uh Koshal Talapati says, "Poli is saying behind the revolution." Yeah. Uli the Chinese agent is saying row is behind this. Yeah, very credible. Thank you. Pranjal says which why are certain countries get more prone to getting destabilized than others? I'll tell you what, smaller countries are always prone to being more destabilized. Why do I say there are only five fully sovereign nations in the world? Does it mean that all other nations are under foreign occupation? No. Just by the fact that you are so small and such a small economy and so weak, it immediately makes you not sovereign because you are dependent on others for your basic essentials and necessities. So that's why small countries, weak countries with small economies are always more prone to getting destabilized because when you are a small country, when you are a weak country and if you want to have the same living standards and amenities as other countries, then you have to reform things and for that you need good politicians. And good politicians generally come to power saying that making big promises but they end up being corrupt like what's happened happened in Nepal and being corrupt means you are being you are serving a foreign power. So you become rich the politician I if I'm a politician I will be super rich. I'll have my family living abroad lots of money lots of luxury and the poor people of Nepal are are are all living in poverty and misery. So that's the situation right? So that's why poor countries, smaller countries are always more prone to being destabilized because there will be opportunistic politicians who will be always ready to always willing to sell the country for a profit to foreign biders and so on. Brunai Kumar says citizens learning self-defense and energy weapons. Okay. Sash Jenna says Sri Lanka and Bhutan next in line until 2019 2029 elections. I think Bhutan it may not not happen. Sri Lanka possible. Possible journey towards inner self says has Trump helped India by making US clear never true. Um has Trump helped India by making it very clear you can't trust the US? In a sense it's good. Lots of Indians were of the opinion that India and US have shared shared values and we are both democracies. One is the oldest democracy, one is the largest democracy. We are natural partners etc. Lots of Indians believed this. So this has come as a wakeup call to see the true face of the US. The India US relationship was never great. Never great. Past 20 years they have been saying that we have becoming we have been increasingly becoming strategic partners. Absolute nonsense. It was never great. Okay. Satellite says also stream on Twitch. I'm streaming on Twitch right now sir. This is streaming on Twitch. Yeah, a group or a server. Listen, I don't have the time to administer a server. I I am a very busy person. Very busy. I don't have the time to babysit a server and appoint and if you appoint admins then they will start running the show. I've experienced it before. So that's why I I know I know I know what you're saying and I and I I I get it what you're saying. I know I get it why you're saying it. Um I I may look into it perhaps. Yeah, it'll be good to have a community of like-minded people for sure. Indeed. Okay. Um shitis Goyel says any nita who doesn't achieve 60% if the tasks promised in manufact should be banned for 10 years after 4.5 years their performance should be judged. Well the people need to do it but the people don't do it. The best way to do it is through voting. Right? Don't ban someone for 10 years. Don't vote for the guy for 10 years. But why are the people so stupid? Why can't the people see that the person made a bunch of promises and they did not fulfill any of the promises? Why? The people are the problem in a democracy. You have to blame the people for keep on keeping on voting the same corrupt people to power. Right? And why does it happen? Why does this happen? Aren't we a literate country? Being able to sign your name doesn't mean literacy when you have no capacity to think critically. We are not a literate country. So the solution is literacy. Teach people how to think critically. But that they will never teach because then the people will become independent. Right? Jaganath Vignesh says is the anti-government uh thing happening in Indonesia related to Nepal as Indonesia is close to our upcoming port in India. It is not related to Nepal. It's a warning to the government of Indonesia by the US that I'm not sure what is the deal. Maybe there is something the Americans want the government of Indonesia to do and maybe they're not doing it. So they have just sent a warning to the government of Indonesia. We can topple you anytime. Do what you told. Stay in line. Don't get off the reservation, etc. Stay in your lane. Do as you are told. So this protest that suddenly happened, it's a warning to the government. It's a warning. Similar things have happened in Thailand also, right? These things happen. These are all warnings by the United States to these countries that we can control what's happening in your country. We can unleash the students on demand. Divor Singh says how were so many people mobilized so fast. Now this is an interesting this is an intelligent question someone is asking. Why doesn't anyone ask these questions? Let's say you have a protest that suddenly happens you know in in some in some place in some city. What kind of protest is it? How are so many mo people mobilized so fast? Secondly, how do they all have nice printed banners? Go to a printer shop, okay, and say that I want to print a banner that is let's say 6 ft by 3 ft and see the quote the printer will give you. It'll cost you several thousand rupees. Now, these people come with hundreds of banners like these, all properly printed, all pre-organized. did not do at the last minute. It was already. So, they've spent lacks of rupees printing all the banners, printing the hats or caps, whatever slogan is on the hat or cap or whatever, and getting all these people together. Everybody has a bottle of water, everybody gets a meal at a certain time. How is all this organized? How is everything organized properly? Who takes care of the logistics? People simply don't think they think oh Asab this is all a popular movement who is funding everything who is organizing all this there is some leadership and some organization function going on behind the scenes hidden away these students do you think they have the capacity to mobilize and organize and and acquire so much money and have everything printed and organized in in a short time. No, somebody is doing everything for them and staying behind the scenes which means that this is not a grassroots movement. It's an astroturfed movements. Right? So, Dn Singh is asking a great question. He's expressing skepticism. How is it possible that such mobilization of such large numbers of people in such an organized fashion happen so fast? It can't happen spontaneously like this. It's not something that can ever happen spontaneously. There's always when something like this happens, there's always something hidden behind the scenes. So maybe it's a foreign embassy or maybe it is NGO NOS's working on the ground on behalf of foreign agencies who are organizing everything and taking care of all the logistics behind the scenes. Yeah, that's how it goes. Pratt Dhana says, "I admire China, but I love my bat." Well, there's a lot to admire about China. Yeah. Yeah, I agree. Sure. Yeah, DNU Singh sir I I'll not today we'll only take questions about Nepal. I'm very sorry but we discussing Nepal only today. Next time I'll take this. Please ask next next time. Dorji says uh well you're very welcome. So thank you. Uh as an Indian Nepal I'd be pleased to see more live chats about the Nepal crisis. Well I hope there is no Nepal crisis in the future. these emergency uh sessions they I I only do these when there's a crisis and the last thing I want to see is more crisis in Nepal. Uh but yeah, if this continues unfortunately then we'll do more more of this. Sure. So yeah, thank you for the recommendation sir. Uh Pratadana says Indonesia joined breaks that's why sir well also they Indonesia also was present in the SEO summit. So there are reasons for these things you see. DNU Singh says can we say that this was the US showing India what they can do with us as well protests are breaking out in Assam already this is no longer a warning to India this is already a change that the Americans are making but in a sense you can say it's a warning because they are showing to India look we are able to do this in East Pakistan in west Pakistan now in Nepal so you may be next so if you don't want to be next say yes to all our demands open up your market to the US agricultural uh exports and dairy exports. Vasalize yourself and there will be no regime change operation in India. So it's a warning indeed in in a sense it's a warning to India that we can take out Nepal, we can take out all the countries in your in your periphery next it could be you if you don't want it agree to our demands. So yeah you could say it's a warning in a sense. Um Vom says where will KPI take refuge? Well as long as he has money he can go and live in London. London will will welcome him. London is a city of crooks, right? London is a city where you have all kinds of drug dealers and arms traders and what former terrorists and former dictators and whatnot who live there and nice people also. I'm not saying they're all like that. But the point is if he has money and I'm sure he has a tremendous amount of money stolen from Nepal so he can take refuge in London. I'm not sure if he will be welcome in Beijing. I don't think Beijing has any respect for the guy. a guy who betrayed his own country even if he did it for China. But I don't think Beijing will have any respect for the guy. So I think KP should go to to to London. London welcomes everybody anyone who has money. Uh satellite says they used Russian oil to burn buildings. Well well well uh Dnor Singh says so what's the next government in Nepal going to look like? Pakistan 3.0. Um I anticipate that in the next few days or a couple of weeks we're going to have a new regime in Nepal which is going to be either that former mayor of Kathmandu whatever his name is who was formerly a Chinese agent now an American agent or it could be some some uh former news anchor who was part of a that prundai government while already while also being a US citizen which is completely illegal but he did that or it could be some Supreme Court justice that laid or or it could be somebody else. I don't know. But whoever comes to power, it's most likely going to be an American agent, somebody who works for the US, not for Nepal. Uh so it's going to be kind of like Pakistan. See Pak in Pakistan, you have this Shabbaz Sharif guy uh who is not really the leader of Pakistan. He's just the puppet. And behind him, the real power lies with the military and the military serves the US. Right? In Bangladesh, you have this uh Mohammed Inu fellow, Nobel Prize winner. He's a puppet. The real power lies in the hands of the military. The military serves the US. So in Nepal, you could have a similar situation. You could have a puppet face uh a visible face of the government who will be one of these individuals and behind the scenes it may be the army that runs the show. But whatever happens will be pro- US. So that's the kind of situation you could have that you will most likely have in Nepal in the coming days. Now these things Bajad says my thoughts on Kirk death. First of all this is nothing to do with Nepal. Secondly I was only vaguely aware of Kirk. I mean I I I did see some videos of him here and there but I did not remember the guy. He's not important from our perspective. Some American right-wing politician who got shot. Well, no other thoughts be beyond that. Divorce says, "I understand US's power, but I don't understand how they can almost make people move like robots in command." Just money. My my friend sir, Dur sir, Dnur G. Money, you have no idea what money does to people. Money solves all problems. Every like there are very few problems that money doesn't solve. It doesn't buy happiness, but it buys you freedom. Money solves most problems in the world and unfortunately everybody has some price. Almost everybody has some price. There are very few people who when shown the money will be able to resist it. Okay. So not let's let's not blame people here and there. When when a sufficient amount of money comes in your face, you know, I I suppose all your all your principles fly out of the window. They can they have essentially unlimited money. They will give people power. They'll give people money. They'll give people prestige. They'll give people so everything everything they dreamed of. So yeah, that's enough to command people. That's enough to make people do to to turn people into robots. And of course, if that doesn't work, there's always the power of the gun. You can always have people assassinated, bumped off. It was an accident. It it was an accident you see godfather style. So that's how things are done in the real world. Uh plus ultra says demographic change reason in Nepal India border. I'm not aware of any demographic changes in the border. In the border of Nepal and India you have the Mad region right the Tari the Tari region the Madesi people who are essentially the same people as the south of the border Bihar Mthila and UP and all that. Is there a demographic change that's happening right now? Is there any large scale industrial scale Christianization happening? Are there Bangladeshes coming in? What's the deal? I'm not sure. I'm not sure. Um, Dnor Singh says people are romanticizing this revolution in Nepal. Is this the best way to look at it? Making reels with Bollywood songs in the background. Indians, Indian influencers are the most low IQ people I've seen. Most of them. I mean, just for a few views, you'll do any nonsense. There is nothing romantic about this revolution. the so-called revolution in Nepal. This is a regime change operation that's going to hurt Nepal in the long run. It is like Nepal coming under what it never came under the East India Company. Now Nepal is going to come under that. The past 30 years you've been under the East China company. Now we will be under the East US company. That is what's happening. Is this something romantic? This is disaster for Nepal. Your leaders are serving foreign powers. If they are serving foreign powers, it means they they're selling your nation. And Indians are saying, "Oh, revolution, jenzi, blah, blah, bollywood songs." Indians are I don't know what to say. I mean, I don't I don't want to insult my own people, but what to say? It's so frustrating. and and yeah uh Jagat Vignesh says should our border stat arm themsel borders states arm themselves near Nepal and there's no need to arm ourselves and all that the Indian defense security forces etc are more than enough to take care of any eventualities and I don't I don't see any any need for any such thing right now uh Tanmay says the way the protest was done it seems The US won't spare anyone and even their own. You may know about Charlie Kirk. People here want such protests also. The US see to understand why this is the case you have to understand what the US is. What is the nature of the United States? People believe that the US is the world's oldest democracy. The US is a two-party system. The Democrats and the Republicans. Technically they have some extra other political parties but realistically they are immaterial and insignificant. They don't matter. So for all practical purposes the US is a two-party system. A two-party state. A two-party state is one step above a one party system like China or North Korea. That's what the US is. Because whether it's the Republicans or the Democrats, their foreign policy is more or less the same. More or less the same. They'll do regime changes. Whether it's the Democrats or the Republicans, they will do regime change operations. They will do wars. They will do all that stuff. Makes no difference. So the US is an autocracy masquerading as a democracy. The US is an empire. It's a modern-day empire just like the Roman Empire used to be, but on a much larger scale. When you are an empire, you act in an imperial fashion. You are imperialistic. And whoever stands in your way, they're done. Now people here also want such protests. Those people are aspiring Zalinskis. The people here in India who want such protests they are aspiring zealinskis snakes inside the country traitors. Okay. Swastik says should India still let Nepal men in security forces I think a reassessment will have to be done depending on what kind of government comes to power now in Nepal. Shoubraat Shukla says even if the leadership is provided from outside why can't the ground organizers present inside the territory be contained? How do they remain hidden? They are not hidden. They're not hidden. Everyone knows they exist. Any NGO that is funded by foreign foreign countries is known but legally they are allowed to operate right you can't go against the laws of your own nation. So in case you have a country like Nepal for example where the law says that yeah you can run an NGO with foreign funding then that law is then weaponized to run NOS's with foreign funding but the purpose of the NGOs is to create a regime change situation but technically it will say no we are a social NGO we working for social welfare so all that documentation will say social welfare all their activists and and founder and all that they will have sociological degrees and they will say that we are social activists So on paper everything is perfect. We this is a social welfare NGO but in reality they'll be doing something entirely different. They'll be mobilizing people to start an armed revolution or something. So that's how we do it right very easy. So so legally if you approach the courts or something take take the case the courts the courts will say n what is the problem? This is perfectly fine perfectly legal. That's how institutions and laws are weaponized against countries. Right? So you will have on on ground organizers who are openly working and they are saying we are doing social work social welfare but actually they are mobilizing people they not remain hidden they're out in the public divorce I says I used to work in Kirk's organization wow I understand you won't take this question Israel probably has something to do with it I took the question I don't know about whether is does Israel something have something to do with this. I I don't know. See, I don't remember exactly what Kirk was doing. Kirk was a right-wing activist, a Christian activist. I've seen his wife's Twitter. All she all she posts is some Christian quote quotes here and there all the time. Luke this and Jeremiah something or the other. All Christian scriptures she keeps quoting. So super super Christian people and obviously very conservative, very right-wing, I'm sure anti-abortion. And I'm sure that he called Indians parasites at some point in time. That's that's all I know about him. So I don't know if he is pro-ch Christian etc. Why would Israel want to kill him off? Uh I I'm not sure about this. Okay. Yeah. But okay. Well, thank you for sharing your perspective sir. Pig and Chad, thank you sir. Very interesting uh DP you have there. Uh Ankita is here. Uh what can common people do to prevent the installation of some aspiring Zalinski as the prime minister in such situation? Don't vote for aspiring Zilinskis. Nothing nothing more the common people can do beyond this. The common people have to be very responsible in voting. Be don't vote because you have a gut feeling for someone. Oh, I like this person. I like him. He's a very good person. That's good. I'm glad you have a good feeling for the person. Now, go and look up the person. Go and look at all everything they have done in the past 20 years. Which organizations have been have they been associated with? What foreign trips have they made? What internal trips have they made? What statements have been have they been making for the past 20 years? Who are they associated with? How many bank accounts do they have? What foreign connections do they have? How many uh family members do they have who live abroad or are foreign citizens? And what countries are these? Look at all these things. Do your due diligence. There are always patterns that you will see with aspiring zillinskies. Okay. So that's what you do. Beyond that what can common people do? All you can do is vote the right way. Divin Singh says should we buy our own assets in Nepal now may become a capitalistic heaven. Now I don't think Nepal will become a capitalistic heaven even if it becomes a US vasal. Uh outwardly it may become somewhat more capitalistic. You may have a few more McDonald's and and and uh and Wendy's and Burger Kings opening up opening up in Nepal. Perhaps Pizza Huts and Dominoes and Taco Bells and Arby's and whatnot. Yeah, a little bit of that may happen. Beyond that, it will not become a capitalistic heaven. If you if you make the people happy, then there will be no that is counterproductive. The people have to be kept downtrodden. Okay? Especially in a vasal state, don't make them too happy. it becomes counterproductive. uh you need see why do you keep people unhappy let's say I am an empire and I have a vasal a newly minted vasal now should I give that masal because he has become my vasal should I give him all the benefits of the world and should I make his people super happy well if I make his people super happy then he will no longer need me to prop him up his people themselves will prop him up right I want him to be vulnerable I want him to have a sword hanging over his neck all the time the people may overthrow you. You are there only because I support you. But if I make the people prosperous, they will start supporting him because they will believe that because because of him the prosperity has come. So Nepal will not become a capitalistic heaven. They will not improve things. Should we buy our own assets in Nepal now? Well, if any assets are available, we can buy them. Yeah. Sai Kalyan Reddi says if the current party is pro-right why not taking straight actions against antinational elements I feel like both our left and right are vasals you see if you take action against aspiring zalinskis then the US will say that you are being politically repressive democracy is backsliding in India you there is no political freedom in India there is No journalistic freedom in India. You are violating human rights. You are anti-democratic. Human rights democracy. Human rights democracy. The Americans like to keep on harping about that. They will weaponize that against you and they can even impose sanctions on you. Especially if you take any action against their assets in the political class in India. India is full of like I said aspiring zalinskis, right? Many of these aspiring zalinskies could potentially hypothetically be in various in the political class hypothetically entirely right we're talking hypotheticals here. So if there are hypothetical zilinskies in India who belong to hypothetical opposition parties perhaps who knows and if the government of India takes action against them it's going to invite tremendous repercussions from the US because the US takes care of their assets. They don't take care of them because they love them. They're nice people because they're assets. The Americans in the 20th century used to say this about African dictators. They used to say maybe, yeah, sure, maybe he's a son of a but he's our son of a right? He's our asset. So, he may be a very evil person, but he's our evil guy. That's why we have to take care of him because he uh looks out for our interests. That's how it goes. So, it's not as simple as okay, this is something you can do. It's more complicated than that. So the Americans if if the government of India goes against certain NOS's or certain politicians they will raise hell. It's going to be more trouble than we than we want. RPL says not only Modi versus US but Canada and China more. All American was against us in some shape or form. Canada has has been weaponized for the past two years. Right. That fellow what's his name? Trudeau. He came to India apparently high on cocaine and then he alleged that India had killed some terrorist some Canadian terrorists in in Canada and then he went public with all the all these completely uh baseless claims have which have no no proof and so on. So Canada has already been weaponized against India and uh there there's more obviously there's more there's more there there are more nations the US can unleash on demand against India whenever they think the time is right Singh says is our internal security powerful enough to never let anything like this happen in India I think the intern our internal security is pretty powerful enough but the problem is that we cannot take action against certain politicians if you have seen ever since Mr. Modi came to power, no politician has been punished for corruption or for anti-Indian activities. It's not like it's because Mr. Modi has a special love for the political class. It's not that. It's because these politicians are under protection from foreign powers and if you touch them then bad things happen in a variety of ways inside India, outside India etc. So you don't want that trouble. But beyond that the internal security is pretty robust in India. I mean the Mauist terrorism that was there in the the red belt of India the Chhattisgarh and Jarakhand and all those areas it's almost disappeared now right they were all funded by foreign foreign countries and in they also have the support of Indian academics and whatnot and Indian politicians. So that is gone to a very large extent and uh when it comes to other other security areas and so on I think the security has been has been significantly augmented and strengthened. So overall I would say that our intel security is pretty strong. Is it powerful enough to never let anything like this happen? That that depends on political decisions. See in 2019 you had the Dilli riots, the Shaheenbag uh riots, you had that um that uh incident in the red fort where somebody pulled down an Indian flag and all that. So that was a test of the Modi government. The security forces could have neutralized those people very easily. Laty charge or whatever rubber bullets. But if somebody gets hurt, somebody dies for whatever reason, then that would be the justification of a much larger scale uprising, right? Because if somebody dies, the media can very rapidly go and paint that as an innocent farmer was killed. Innocent struggling farmer who came to protect who came to protest for his rosi roti was killed by the Modi regime. and then farmers from from other parts of the country will get agrieved and they will join the protest and then you can create a mass revolution. So the Modi government was very restrained, very reserved. They allowed the rampage to happen. They did not have the armed forces stopped it stop it and that was a very wise move. It is only apparent in retrospect today. But overall the internal security is powerful enough to to ensure that nothing really happens. But when it comes to these critical critical uh incidents, the political decisions have to be uh mature. Subhaari says, "Love for Ben Bengal." Thank you so much. Do you think uh thank you very much. Do you think Bengal is the next Kashmir? After seeing Nepal regime change, I understand the US can do anything. Do I think Bengal is the next Kashmir? It looks like Bengal is becoming the next Bangladesh. Not Kashmir but Bangladesh. That's what it looks like. I mean Bengal this this lovely beautiful part of India. The British when they reached Bengal they said it was the most prosperous part of India. Of course they had not seen the whole of India but from their perspective it was the most prosperous part of India most fertile and all of that and Bengali history is such wonderful history going back how many thousands of thousands of years. one of the first one of the earlier examples of democracy in India. King Shashank and so much more. But today all all of that is forgotten Bengal, right? All of that is forgotten. And now you have if you I hear that if you go to Bengali you will find more Bangladeshes than Bengales. So it looks like there is a demographic invasion of Bengal that has happened the past I don't know how many years. And uh if this is if something is not done about this I would say Bengal is doomed to becoming the next Bangladesh. Is there a US hand in this? I could be could be we'll see DNU Singh says does our vote even make a difference anymore I think it still does does make a difference I mean u 2024 votes did make a difference it made the difference between a stable government and a coalition government so votes do make a difference and people should not take their votes lightly I know it's 1.4 four billion of us. But at the end of the day, we all have to go out and and and and put our vote in so that the right result is is arrived at. Uh pagan Chad says, "I witnessed crypto-christians with my own eyes subtly influencing the Hindu flance. Friends, they are leeching all the benefits of SCST. Who can stop them?" I think this is something for the government to do. There's nothing we can do about this. See, like I've said in so many times, India is the most hindophobic country in the world. And when I mean hindophobic I mean all the dharmic paths not just what you call Hinduism. All the dharmic paths Hindu, Buddhist, Sik and and Jen. These are the four major dharmic paths. We are treated as secondass citizens in India. There's Hindu apath in India. And all these people who want to destroy our culture and civilization they they are they are protected and and so so and all that. Who can stop them? government has to stop them. Let me give you an example. The British had stolen land from India, right? We know that they occupied India for two and a half centuries. They stole Indian land and they gave a large amount of land to all these churches on 99-year leases. The land was given to the churches on a 99year lease. It was not given to the church for free forever. It was given on lease for 99 years. Those leases have expired today. The land belongs to the government of India to the people of India. Why isn't the government of India taking the land back from the churches? What are they scared of? You see how powerful this mafia is? You see that? Divor Singh says Nepal was never colonized. Still they don't see themselves as a part of India. China's propaganda must be impressive. It's it's Chinese propaganda and the brainwashing imparted on the Nepali citizens by the Maoists. See Nepal is not part of India but Nepal is part of Bharatwash historic Bharatwash. Nepal was very much part of it. Before 17 whatever the the this this kingdom called Nepal did not exist. It was part of the Lichavi Mahag Ganatantra uh Maha Mahajanapada. It was also part of the Viji Mahajanapada and it was part of the Kushan Empire. It was part of the Moria Empire. It was part of the Gupta Empire. So it's always been part of Bharat. Since the 1700s, it became a separate kingdom. Shri Pratin Aaran Sha was the great king who established the Nar or Nepal kingdom, right? The Gora kingdom and ever since then the British decided that we will keep this as a as a buffer state. So Nepal was never part of the British Raj and uh today's India is kind of a fragmented outcome of the British Raj but Nepal was ever always part of Batwash but today the people of Nepales have been brainwashed and they so much hate has been put into their heads some of them not all of them that they hate India just like the Pakistanis do the only thing is that there's no religious angle to that u so it's not the Chinese propaganda it's the Mauists who have done this this to their people you injected all this hatred in their minds. Adityal says how can 20 listen this is not the day for this we are discussing Nepal today sir please we'll we'll take these questions on Saturday announcement Saturday I will do a 8 hour live stream askit ask me anything I'll take all your questions 8 hours okay I know it sounds crazy I'll do that 6 p.m. Saturday I'll put the announcement up. So Adita I'll take your question then. Okay. Today we'll discuss Nepal please. All right. Uh Varelika says lots of Nepalese people have a second home. They have bank accounts in India. There has been and will be a lot of spillover of Nepalese population. Don't you think? It depends on how the regime change proceeds in back home in Nepal. So if it is a very violent regime change and lots of people are targeted for whatever reason. See when a regime change happens then the new regime often goes after the people who supported the old regime they try to purge the whole society if that happens then people try to escape for example what happened let's say in 1971 in East Pakistan the east the Pakistani government was was doing a genocide of the Hindus with American support so when such something like this happens people have to escape and where do they escape they go back to the motherland. So that's why lots of uh Bangladeshi Hindus came to India and they settled down in India. Now absolutely you're right. Lots of Nepales have second homes and bank accounts in India. So if there is a similar situation in Nepal after this regime change then it will make sense for them to come and you know settle down in India. Will there be a lot of spillover of Nepalese population? It will certainly be less than the number of Bangladeshes we have in India. We have close to around 100 million illegal Bangladeshi infiltrators all across the country today in India. So I think if a few million Nepalese decide that we want to escape Nepal hypothetically and settle down in India, we should welcome them. They are our own people. And if if that's a burden on the people of India, get rid of 10 20 million Bangladeshes. Everything is good. At least the Nepalese people are culturally and civilizationally aligned with us unlike the Bangladeshes. So I would say that it's it's not necessarily a bad thing. Nepalese people are wonderful. I've always had great experiences with Nepalese people, nicest people in the world. So that will not be a problem. It will not be an antiational problem. It will not be a problem of of cultural and civilizational strife like what they have with the goddamn Bangladeshes illegal infiltrators in India. So get rid of those. Oh, that's what I would say. All right. Uh Vermian Caliber says, "Hope to see you on Joe Roen podcast someday soon." All right. Thank you so much. Divor Singh G says Zalinsky 2.0 imaginary person let's call him Mr. Z World War Z. If he manages to gain more seats in 2029, are we done for? We're done for. We're done. Cooked. We're done, sir. We're done. Pratt Dhana says, "One episode on Qatar Israel thing someday." Okay. If it becomes something that is notable and something that um is impactful, I'll be happy to do it. Sure. Sure. Uh Jaganath Vignesh says, "Shouldn't we have a strong lobby in the US and other western institutions where we change from their point of view to our POV?" Basically, the colonized the lobby. Look, I'll tell you what. Apparently in the government of India hired some lobbyist in Washington. We apparently paid this guy $1.8 million the last few days. Okay. And now this guy as as somebody who works for India, he goes to President Trump and presents his case and whatever. And then there's a nice photo opportunity. They're both smiling. And you know what India's journalists do? Some utterly imbeilic, moronic, Indian journalists. I am using those words deliberately. I'm not taking anyone's name by the way. some so-called senior journalists, very senior journalists and some aspiring geopolitical experts among journalists, they went on Twitter and they said India's lobbyist who India has paid $1.8 million meets Donald Trump. This is the most behavior I've ever seen. When you are doing lo when you hire a lobbyist, this is supposed to be kept quiet. You don't announce it. These things are done behind the scenes, behind the curtains. You never announce that somebody is my lobbyist. But these idiot Indian journalists who think that they are geopolitical experts, they went on Twitter and they started announcing this guy is our lobbyist. We paid him $1.8 million because I want to be the first to break the news, right? I want to be the number one journalist to help with the Indian national interest. I should be the one to break the news. And very prominent journalists did that. A bunch of utter idiots who imagine that they are geopolitical experts. Let me give them the worst possible insult I can give them. Pakistani journalists are better than this. They have more sense. Yeah, we should have a strong lobby in the US. Yeah, we should. But we should do it quietly. Let let let let us not allow the idiot journalists to come to know who who we have hired as lobbyists. My god, are they traitors or what? Are they trying to betray India? There are three options I can think of. Either they're absolute clueless idiots. That's number one. Number two, they don't care about the country. They know what harm it will do to the country, but they want to be number one journalist who broke the news first. Or number three, they are on some foreign country's payroll. One of the three possibilities I most likely they're idiots most likely we know what they say never blame to malice never attribute to malice what you can attribute to idiocy or something like that. So these these senior journalists are a bunch of idiots. Yeah. And and they think that they are they're portraying themselves as geopolitical experts. My god. Divor Singh says we have our own oligarchs richest in Asia by the way. We are the richest guys in the US. Our external influence does not add up according to this. Influence is immaterial. Power is what matters. Let's understand the difference between influence and power. Influence is the blue guy here. Power is the red guy. What's the difference between influence and power? Let's say I have a million followers on YouTube, a million subscribers on YouTube. It means a million people may sometimes pay attention to what I say and may sometimes take it seriously. H so I have a million subscribers, million sub subscribers on YouTube and I have a 200,000 followers on Twitter which means that those people will sometimes take me seriously and sometimes they want to they'll pay attention to me. That is called influence. So it is at their discretion whether to listen to me or not. Sometimes they will, sometimes they will not. That is influence. Now on the other hand, this guy, red guy here, he has a hundred men at his disposal. Those 100 men are armed to the teeth with the latest weapons and they will obey him unquestioningly. Unquestioning obedience. Here I have a million subscribers. Here I have a 100 guys with unquestioning obedience who are armed to the teeth. Who is more powerful? Who will get more done? The 100 guys are worth way more than those million subscribers. This million subscribers is influence. These 100 guys is power. Now imagine you have a million guys armed to the teeth with the latest weapons who will obey you unquestioningly. Imagine the kind of power that gives you. So when you have oligarchs and when you have people who are influential, it makes no difference. What you need is power. What you need is assets you can control. So the influence and soft power blah blah blah Indians Indians are obsessed with soft power and influence. Please wisen up people. Influence make no makes no difference. Soft power is useless. What you need is hard power. Power is what matters not influence. Uh what happened to Swadzand giving anti-India state? I have no idea. No idea. Sorry. Absolutely none. Dimnur Singh has a lot of questions. If we hypothetically take over Nepal, what is America going to do? Admit the pull of a coup while making us pay for it. They will never admit the the pull of a coup. But they will accuse India of invading a sovereign nation. They will accuse of India of doing what Putin did in Ukraine. That is the deal. If you hypothetically take over Nepal, that's what they will say. And there will have some people in of Nepal's origin protest in New York in Washington and in other US other European capitals. And then the all the western media like Deutschella like the BBC like the Guardian like the New York Times like the Washington Post like 23 whoever everybody will gang up and create this huge narrative that India has become another rogue state like Russia and then sanctions and destroy the Indian economy. They will never admit the pull of a cool. Absolutely not. See that's how the game is played. Pagan Chad, thank you so much sir. Thank you. Um DN Singh says will be taking Nepali refugees. I might just monopolize your next two live stream. So much love. Thank you so much. Um I hope there are no Nepalese refugees. I hope this new regime does not target any people any of their people. But in case there are people from Nepal who who wish to come to India while the border is anyway open they are not refugees. They are our people. See if if somebody wants to go from a state to B state in India we don't call them refugees right. So similarly if some people from want to move from Nepal to India well they're always welcome there will be no no one stopping them to come in. So there'll be no issues as such nothing. Divor Singh says so can the deep pockets pay off India's top leadership. Now that's a very interesting question you ask. I would say that most politicians most anywhere in the world. Okay, let's let's make it a global question. Most politicians anywhere in the world will have a certain price. If the price is low, they will say I don't do such things. I have standards. I have principles. But if the price is high enough, if the right if the right price is given, they will give in. But there are some politicians who have no price and I am firmly convinced Mr. Modi is one of them. He's one of the rare politicians who has no price, who will not be bought out. So at least when it comes to Mr. Modi, I'm confident there's no price for him. He will not sell the country. Others I don't know. Others I don't know. That's all I can say. Okay, we'll take a couple more questions. It's been a pretty long live stream. Couple more questions. I'll I'll finish the existing super chats right and then we'll stop. Uh Roger Chhatraji says thank you for doing this on a lighter note. Looking like a Jenzi. I'm looking like a Jenzi. Lots of people getting unbrainwashed for you from you. Well, I I hope so. I don't want any people to be brainwashed this way or that way. I want people to be able to think critically on their own without needing any help from someone like me or anybody else. That's that's all that I that I seek to do. Nothing else. I don't want to brainwash anyone but anyway I'm I'm I'm glad that uh at least some people see sense hopefully. Yeah. And thank you sir Rajat Gin Singh says is the if the US is going to fall eventually are they going to take everyone down with them? You know you may have heard of the Israeli Samson option. The Israeli Samson option is their nuclear option uh in which they have a list of targets. The Samson option is that if Israel goes down, it'll take everyone down with them, which means they're enemies. And a few months ago, some list was leaked. I'm not sure if it was an authentic list or list or not, but apparently there were many major capitals, world capitals on that list. So the deal is that if Israel goes down, if let's say Israel finds itself in a situation where it's going to be defeated and it's going to be destroyed then before the Israel falls they will launch a massive nuclear strike and destroy all their enemies before they go down finally that is the Samson option. If I go down everyone goes down with me. Now on the list I saw India was not on the list of targets but certain very interesting countries were on the list of targets. Now that's the Israeli Samsung option. The US has its own version of the Samsung option which is a global Samson option. If the US goes down the whole world goes down with them. They will nuke everybody including nations that have never done a thing to the US. So the US if it goes down if it falls they will nuke the entire world. That's incredibly evil, but that's their plan. James, our good old friend is back. Good to see you, mate. Cheerio, speak about the Sami people and how we ruined them. The Sami people have nothing to do with Nepal. But the Sami people are people who live in Finland and they are kind of oppressed. Yeah, I think the the whites have oppressed the Sami people. Even though some people themselves look white, you know, uh blonde hair and blue eyes and white skin, but I think they are a finick people or whatever. Um that's all I can say in very short. But good to see you, James. Good to see you. Former colorizer. All right. Uh Pagan Chad said, "You predicted a falling power lashes out." Uh that's what most falling powers do. Uh they lash out. So yeah, if the US falls, it'll lash out at everybody and flatten the world. Essentially, that's what they would like to do. Okay, I'm going to end this live stream here. Thank you so much everybody for all the questions. I think we have thrown some clarity on the situation in Nepal and we will keep an eye on this. If there are there's more developments that are potentially destabilizing or whatever, I shall do another emergency live stream as and where when required. So everybody, thank you so much for all your questions and I look forward to seeing you on Saturday when I will do an 8h hour Q&A session. 6 p.m. it starts. It'll go on until 2 2:00 a.m. If ever if the questions last, we'll do it. I'll be happy to take repeated questions if required. I look forward to seeing you there. Those of you who want to watch my other live, participate in other liveream, they can do it at 6 p.m. Until then, take care everyone. I'll see you soon. Take care. Keep asking questions. Keep raising your standards. Thank you everyone. Bye-bye.