[Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Good evening. Good day everybody and welcome to this special emergency episode of the Ask Abijit show. Uh we are talking about the fact that we are a nation at war. You know wars don't have to be declared. You are at war. We are at war. India is currently now at war with Pakistan. It's not a war that's been declared but there's action happening as we speak right now. Pakistanis are trying to uh target Indian cities along our western border with drone and missile strikes right now and we are u intercepting those u attempts and I'm I suppose we'll be retaliating in some manner. So we are we are in a state of war right now. Uh and that's what we're going to discuss today. So it all started a couple of days ago uh with uh India responding to the Pakistani massacre of of civilians in Jammu and Kashmir in Palgam and it was for Pakistan to just accept the fact that they they had done this terrible thing and they should uh absorb uh the Indian punishment but they decided to strike try and strike back and so on. So we're going to discuss that today but before we get into that let's see who all is there on the live live chat. I can see Bhavan Trading Grow Sri Ram Chandra Nahab Gorov Duv Kumar DK Anand Pay Kesha Chawan Goresh KB Airal Gandhi Vidang Mishra Manendraal 234 Jay Kumar Ara Manat Arnaviagi Krishna Raun from the Suriname Netherlands Amisha Mishra HLWFPS Angad Singh Samritig Swami Sham Shawantra Vikram Gorav Jagdish Mali Rashmi Ratur Lakshi Bhutak Sange Chim Dongar Singh, Johan, Madhav, Durve, U and and so many other people. I can see PR Remy Dip uh inner satisfaction Alvin Rodriguez and lots of other people. I won't be able to greet you all other ones. I'll do that all day, but let's get into the questions that you all have asked. We've asked a lot of questions. I'm going to take questions from uh the questions you've asked in the uh comments. So, let's get into it. What's question one? Willie John says, "Can you agree to the fact that war always leads to suffering and pain? Looking back at every war, every victims of the war wishes it doesn't ever it did not ever happen." I, you know, if you want to do a root cause analysis of what causes suffering and pain, then it is incorrect to say that war causes suffering and pain. It's not war that causes suffering and pain. It is evil people and evil ideas and evil ideologies and so on that causes suffering and pain. And when you have evil people imposing suffering and pain on their victims, the victims have a choice. Either we suffer, we accept this suffering and pain or we give it back to the evil people. Right? So we have two choices as as the victims. We either suffer ourselves or we respond and give it back to the evil people. And the solution if you want to end suffering and pain, it is to end these evil people and ideas. That is the solution. War is not the problem. There can be just causes for war. Please understand that there are just and righteous causes for war at times. So it is not war that's the root cause of suffering and pain. It is evil people and evil ideas that are the root cause of suffering and pain. And those have to be ended. And India has made a choice. We will no longer sit back and take it. We're going to begin the process of dismantling and ending the evil people and the evil ideas that reside within this artificial temporary nation called Pakistan. Prane Paul says what's your overall assessment of operation Synindur thus far based on what we have seen in the public domain in the backdrop of the brutal Pahalgam attack and decades of hostility with this temporarily carved out nation radical nation how significant is this operation strategically and symbolically do you think Pakistan is feeling the heat beyond just physical strikes perhaps diplomatically psychologically and economically how squeezed are they really and where could this be heading in the coming weeks and months Is operation Synindur even concluded yet or are we just getting started? Operation Synindur is continuing right now. It was supposed it should have been a one-off thing, you know, uh India hits at these Pakistani terrorist uh infrastructure, the terror camps and so on and that should be that should have been the end of it. But the Pakistani military gave to chose to give the terrorists state funerals. They chose to mingle their army officers with the terrorists and then they chose to try and hit more than 15 Indian cities last night. All their attempts were intercepted. All their missiles and drones were intercepted and then today responded by hitting multiple targets, military targets within Pakistan in various Pakistani cities, Lahar, Karachi and whatnot. Uh so I think it's an ongoing thing operation. My overall assessment so far is that Pakistan has been humiliated and I don't say say this with a great amount of joy or anything. They deserve it. This nation has has been under the impression for decades that they can act with impunity and they can keep bleeding India with a with a strategy of a thousand cuts. Well, it's not going to happen anymore and India will no longer be willing to offer Pakistan a face saver. We slap you, you slap us back and then we end. No, we slapped you because we are right. You try to slap us back, we're going to stop the slap and we're going to slap you back twice as hard. And this will not end as long as Pakistan doesn't try to keep retaliating. They need to sit down. That's what needs to happen. And they then need to dismantle their terrorist infrastructure and all this needs to be proven. Then India will um decide whether to stop operation Synindur or not. And as long as Pakistan tries to retaliate or escalate, we will respond in a proportionate manner and we'll keep responding in a pro proportionate manner. And Pakistan cannot afford a long drawn out situation such as this. They cannot afford to make this the new normal. Every night you're going you're going to have skirmishes and artillery fire on civilians and and drones and missiles targeted Indian Indian cities. They simply don't have the resources to sustain this to continue this. They are a nation that is on the brink of this perpetually on the brink of bankruptcy. They can't sustain this. So uh it's a dangerous situation that Pakistan uh is dragging itself into. Uh Pakistan is feeling the heat very much. They are humiliated. Their armed forces are humiliated. Their civilians can see that uh they don't have any air defenses. It's very clear India is striking at will at the in the heart of Pakistan. Not not 50 kilome 50 km from the border but all the way wherever we want. Karachi, Islamabad, Raal Pindi, wherever. So the people of Pakistan can see that the military which um draws its legitimacy from painting India as the as the as the as the uh danger to Pakistan as an exist existential threat and the military that draws its legitimacy from their claim that they can protect Pakistan against India. Well, their claims are clearly hollow. Um and if this continues, the people of Pakistan will rebel against the military dictatorship. Uh so Pakistan is feeling the heat. Economically they they are in in terrible shape. Uh psychologically uh it's it's terrible for the morale of a nation when this happens when when their adversity can strike them at will at the the in the heart of the country. So it's terrible psychologically and psych and for the morale of of the nation. And diplomatically look uh I think China will stand with Pakistan. The US will not feel that this is a good time to stand with Pakistan considering everything that's happened and everything that Pakistan stands for. So Pakistan is let's what's the cricket term? It's on a sticky wicket. Mazar Chachar says can you provide details about uh the types of drones used by India in today's incident involved in Pakistan. The local media here in Pakistan is reporting that 25 Indian drones were intercepted and downed. Were these drones suicide or kamikaza drones or of a different kind? So we have a viewer from Pakistan. He's a longtime viewer and I feel I feel terrible that we are in this situation. You see there are good people in Pakistan. No question about it. And and you know what? I I have absolutely nothing against the ordinary people of Pakistan. But they are citizens of a nation that stands for terrorism. What can I do? It's it's terrible. That's the the cost that the people of Pakistan are sadly having to pay for the misdeeds of the dictatorship, the military dictatorship, the ISI military terrorist combination entity that is holding Pakistan hostage. Anyhow, to answer your question, Mazer, um the only drone that that is confirmed to have been used is the Harop drone. It's an Israeli designed drone that's manufactured in apparently in very large numbers in India. And these are drones that have a long endurance. They can loiter for several hours before descending on their target. These are subsonic drones, not supersonic drones. They travel at they fly at less than the speed of sound and they can loiter, like I said, for for several hours. And while loitering over an area, they can um uh they can ingest and transmit valuable intelligence about what they are seeing. So they are reconnaissance drones but they also eventually at the end of their mission turn into suicide or kamikaz drones and they they carry an explosive uh uh payload which is delivered to the place where the drone eventually ends up striking. So that's the Israeli designed har drone that's made in India and they produce this screaming sound apparently that when they when they descend on the target target apparently that's what one hears. uh and these are known to have been used today. There is footage on social media from within Pakistan of people Pakistani people you know filming the drone descending and slamming into the target. Um and u look the Pakistani media and and the armed forces the military Pakistani military is reporting that multiple 25 Indian drones were intercepted or whatever but uh okay I don't know how many drones were fired by India but we know that there have been multiple hits on Pakistani targets and those are known those are corroborated from so many citizens who who have filmed this and put put on social media some of that has been captured live the drones striking you know so uh there obviously have been multiple hits and that too in the heart of Pakistan and on on military installations in various Pakistani cities including Lahore near the airport I believe in Rahindi some place Karachi as well and so on u so it's possible that other types of drones may also have been involved uh the first night of operation Synindur we know that multiple hits were done multiple strikes were done by India on multiple locations so one location would be struck three, four, five times to ensure its destruction and the elimination of all terrorist human beings inside. And these strikes were recorded, they were filmed by Indian drones and those films were put out as evidence by the government of India in that first press conference. So you can see that the Indian loitering drone which is a slowmoving drone is is loitering over the target and it is filming. You can see the bomb is descending or the or the yeah the payload is descending on the target and then then the target target blows up. So you have Indian drones over Pakistani territory loitering and filming this calmly while it happens and these slowmoving drones were not taken out by the Pakistani air defenses which kind of raises enormous questions over the uh quality of the Pakistani air defense. I can understand if they can't take out Abraham's missile because it's it travels too fast. But you have these slowmoving drones that they should be able to take out but they have not been able to. So how did India manage this is the question. Did we use electronic counter measures? Did we use harm or arm missiles of some kind? Anti-radiation missiles what is it? I think it's not going to come out for a long time what India did and how it has been done. But please understand this is an ongoing process. The action is happening right now as we speak. Pranay Paul says based on confirmed details in the public domain from the first round of operation sindur including precision strikes on terror camps and the elimination of key individuals linked even to the horror even to horrors like 261 the Mumbai attacks. Would you assess this as a decisive and significant blow to Pakistan's terror infrastructure? With such deeprooted assets, many propped up for decades by the West now being dismantled by the Indian army. Do you believe Pakistan will have the capacity to rebuild these terror hubs again? Or are we finally witnessing a long overdue mission to permanently this terrorist ecosystem? What's your assessment of the scale and strategic impact of the damage inflicted in this phase? Um look the damage inflicted in this phase is not insignificant. Uh some of the I think the headquarters of one of the terrorist organizations Lashkar a toy Toy toba le has been obliterated. Uh what is it? Some some I don't know what the name is I don't understand these names in a foreign language. So whatever. So the headquarters has been obliterated and many terrorist uh uh much significant ter terrorist infrastructure has been destroyed and you could you it's very clear that lots of terrorists have died and they were g given yesterday or whenever it was state funerals by the Pakistani military. So there and and and apparently a whole large number of rel relatives of the of one of the senior most terrorists Masoud Azar right a large number of his relatives were apparently killed uh in the this one of the strikes including his brother who apparently was was linked was was connected with the with the murder abduction and murder of Daniel Pearl an American Jewish journalist more than I think 25 26 years ago in Pakistan. So we have brought we have delivered justice to Daniel Pearl's family. You see um so it is it is uh what's happening what's happened thus far is significant. I would not call it a decisive blow that will permanently Pakistan's terror infrastructure. Uh but it is a huge uh step in that direction and it is a terrible blow to the morale of Pakistan. Now they will feel that India can strike them at will strike them anywhere within Pakistan. That is very much clear now to any terrorist any Pakistani terrorist and from the fact that nobody has supported Pakistan except for China neither Iran neither Afghanistan neither the Taliban Pakistan or whoever no one has supported Pakistan in in what's happened that that is going to you know it hurts it's going to hurt if you if you are a Pakistani terrorist or or a member of the Pakistani establishment so they're kind of isolated said the only people standing with them are essentially the Chinese and so on. Uh so we haven't really dismantled the entire terrorist infrastructure. We have destroyed one of the headquarters of the le and we have struck blows at the heart of the terrorist establishment and uh so it's it's a significant strike. It's kind of an inflection point. Pakistan will never look at India the same way again. Until now Pakistan has looked at looked upon India as a as a soft state as a punching bag. You can keep on jabbing at India and India will keep on taking it. We gave them this reinforcement learning over decades that you can keep jabbing at India, keep striking India, keep keep bleeding India with a thousand cuts and India won't respond. We gave them this reinforcement learning. Well, now we are making them unlearn them unlearn that. Now India is not going to be a predictable nation. We are not predictable anymore when it comes to the waters of the Indust region. the the six rivers of the region and we are no longer going to be predictable when it comes to uh our military activities and military actions against Pakistan. So yes, it's it's long overdue and uh one hopes that this uh has the eventual result of permanently crippling and dismantling the terrorist infrastructure of Pakistan which will be a huge relief not just for the people of Pakistan, the innocent civilians of Pakistan but for the people of the entire region of the entire subcontinent and beyond. I mean Iran is not part of the subcontinent. It will be a relief from for them as well. Uh so it's a good start. I will say it's a huge blow to the morale and self-belief of the ISI military terrorist entity which is one and the same. It's all interchangeable. An entity with a thousand faces. It's a huge blow to their self-belief, their morale. And now they're going to be really fearful of India. And their nuclear bluff has been called. Oh, we have nuclear weapons. You touch us, we're going to blow you up. Come on, blow us up. What happened? what happened to your nukes? You see, it's not that easy. So, yeah, it's it's a significant um it's it's it's definitely long overdue and it's a huge change in the way India operates. Prrenipal again says many good questions from Prayal. Brenal says what with the confirmed elimination of Abdul Rahul Azar the mastermind of the IC814 hijacking the air the Indian airlines hijacking in in 1999 I believe it was in operation Sundur how significant is this milestone in Barat's counterterror doctrine does this mark a strategic shift from the reactive posturing to surgical intelligence-driven elimination of high value targets deep within enemy territory. Is Operation Sindor setting a new benchmark for effectiveness in India's fight against decades long, decades old terror networks. I think it's a start. So yeah, like I said, this guy Abd Abdul Rahul Azar, I'm sorry, it's a foreign name. I don't I can't pronounce it well, but he was the brother of the other fellow Masud Azar. And he this Abdul fellow was apparently involved in the hij in the um in the uh kidnapping and and murder of Daniel Pearl, the American journalist. And he was apparently also the mastermind of the uh Indian Airlines hijacking which started from Kathmandu went through it. It happened in Amritsar as well. The plane touched down and then it went all the way to Kandahar and Walthan and India ended up releasing five dreaded terrorists in exchange for the lives of whoever uh the prison the the the passengers were on the plane. A couple of them were killed I believe. Uh anyhow so this individual this this dreaded senior terrorist is now confirmed to have been eliminated in operation. Significant milestone for sure. It has uh delivered justice to the family of Daniel Pearl. It has also delivered justice to the people to the families of the people affected by the Indian Airlines 81 flight 814 hijacking which happened all those years ago and it's going to be a significant milestone in Barrett's counterterror doctrine if we continue the same thing and I think it's going to be continued now. Now India will no longer play by the old playbook of sitting back and absorbing all the blows. We're going to give it back and give it back twice as hard. So if that continues if if that policy continues from India's perspective from from India then it's going to be a significant milestone an inflection point a tipping point in Parat's counterterror doctrine and we're going to play from a whole different playbook uh going forward. So it is definitely an inflection point and we're going to see a whole different beast in India going forward. That's what it looks like and that I think is really welcome. Okay, next question is by peace. Why did we use aircraft to carry out the precision strikes instead of long range missiles which could have been launched from our side without getting inside enemy lines? Look um our armed forces and our government have given no details about how these strikes were launched on Pakistani targets. from the video evidence that has been released which is unmistakably of those Pakistani terror hubs within Pakistan. No doubt about it. So the video evidence shows bombs being dropped from drones and some other footage shows other kinds of uh payloads being delivered. Some of these could be smart bombs. Some of these could be cruise missiles. We are not 100% sure uh what was the delivery mechanism. Uh there have been certain foreign YouTube channels that have speculated that uh it was a combination of Indian Rafals and Indian Sukhoy30s that was used to uh launch the cruise missiles. There's speculation that scalp missiles were used that that Brahos supersonic missiles were used and various spice bombs were used and so on. Look, we haven't given any details. All of this is speculation. It's possible that most of these uh payloads were were delivered by missiles that were launched from the ground. It's possible. It's possible. It's also possible that they were launched from aircraft. That's also within the realm of possibility. But we don't know for sure which uh modality was used to deliver the these strikes. So in case we used aircraft, let's say in case we use aircraft, then there was no need for us for crossing the line of control or the international border. uh we have missiles whether it's the Brahmos missile or the whichever missile the scalp missile whatever that's used from with the Rafal there's no need to cross the international border by by air there's no need for the aircraft that will launch the missiles to cross the international border we the aircraft can deliver those missiles to their destinations from long distances from standoff distances from 150 or 200 km away so in case we used aircraft I can assure you that those aircraft did not cross the international border or the line of control. But there is no there's there is no way of knowing thus far. There's no confirmation or denial that we used aircraft. It's possible that some aircraft were used but we don't have the knowledge. Right? So let's not assume that a we used aircraft and b if we used the aircraft then those aircraft crossed the LOC or the international border. There's no confirmation or denial of these things. Chiraasti says after Pakistan's rocket attacks on Indian cities on May 7, 2025, India's morning drone strikes on May 8 today penetrated Chinese HQ9 and HQ16 air defenses targeting Pakistani military hubs in Lahar and beyond. Were these drones primarily deployed to map Pakistan's urban and defense infrastructure in real time? Or did these drones have some other purpose other than striking the air defense and mapping their infrastructure? Look, the primary uh objective of these drones was to uh strike the targets. Whichever targets were chosen uh to be hit, the targets were military targets, uh air defense systems, uh radar systems and other military uh infrastructure of Pakistan. And that was imp placed within cities like Lahore. So the air defense system for for Lahore was near the Lahore airport and that was taken out and wiped out obliterated uh by today's strikes uh in the daytime daylight strikes. Um so today's drone strikes they penetrated the Pakistani air defense system. They they were able to just go through the Pakistani air defense defense system and the Pakistanis are claiming that 25 drones or whatever were shot down. But look, we know the damage our drones caused in Pakistan. It's it's all over social media and uh it's unmistakable that significant damage was caused and and and significant targets were hit in Pakistan and their their own citizens are reporting. See today in this age of social media, you can't hide these things. Pakistan has been claiming that they shot down five Indian aircraft, right? Fighter planes. Well, in today's day and age, if such a thing happens, you can't hide it. It will be all over social media. Let's say Pakistan takes out an Indian aircraft and the Indian aircraft falls in Indian territory on on the Indian side of the border. Well, locals are going to film it and it's going to end up on social media whether you like it or not. That's how today's day and age is. Everybody has a cell phone with a camera. Everybody can instantaneously upload it to social media and it'll be all over the social media. You simply can't contain this information. You can't hide it. You can't keep it secret. So in today's day and age, you can't lie about these things. So Indian drones hit multiple targets, multiple significant high value targets in Pakistan today and they bypass the Chinese air defenses, the Chinese-made air defense systems, right? They penetrated the air defenses and uh so look, the primary objective was to take out the military targets which were successful. The secondary objective, I'm sure, was to test the reliability and and robustness of the Pakistani air defense system. The Chinese radars and the Chinese missiles and all that. And well, it's clear that we were able to penetrate the Pakistani air defenses. The Chinese systems aren't that great. Clearly, and these are some of China's best air defense systems, the radars and whatnot. So that is a huge blow to the prestige of Chinese technology and the Chinese are going to be worried about this now. They have been exposed. They have been exposed. So look these strikes which we did today. They served multiple purposes. First of all to give a give a response to what Pakistan tried last night to target more than 15 Indian cities. The Pakistanis last night while when most while most Indians were sleeping they attempted to target more than 15 Indian cities with missile and drone attacks and there's videos of the Indian air defense system taking out these missiles. You can see the flashes of light the explosions in the sky or Punjab and other places even all the way down south in BJ in Gujarat. We haven't opened the map today. So let me open the map in in case some of you are not aware of where BJ is, let me show you. Excuse me. So here we have the map. So the northernmost attempt by Pakistan to target an Indian city was in Sinagar apparently. Uh so they tried to target Shinagar last night. Where's Shinagar? Oh here it is. And Aantipura as well. And they t tried to target multiple uh cities in in Punjab, Hurana apparently Rajasthan and the southernmost city they tried to hit was BJ in western India in Gujarat in western Gujarat in the Kacho region of Gujarat. So the Pakistanis tried to hit more than 15 Indian cities last night. Okay. and not a single Indian city was hit because if a single missile hit it would have been on social media. You can't hide that in today's day and age. So Pakistan's attempts to respond to retaliate to India were were a miserable failure and then in respon response to that we launched the strikes today in the daytime. So the first objective was to respond to Pakistan's provocation. The second objective was to to hit the targets uh that we we had chosen. The third uh objective was to see how well we can bypass the Chinese uh made air defenses of Pakistan and to test the robustness of the air defense system and maybe it's possible that these drones also collected some intelligence you know signals intelligence visual intelligence and so on. So it it solved multiple it served multiple purposes. The Baron Zemo says, "In your assessment, what's the likelihood of Pakistan escalating the situation either through proxy warfare or through direct me military means and how should India handle this in a calibrated manner while avoiding international pressure? We don't care about international pressure anymore. We are past that now." Um, now the question is excellent. What's the likelihood of Pakistan escalating the situation? Look, they're going to escalate. They're going to try keep on trying to retaliate and and hit India in some manner. What are the ways they could and first of all why would they do that? It's because if Pakistan doesn't hit back at India, then the military will be seen as important by the people of Pakistan and then there's going to be widespread rebellion against the military because then what is the point of having the military dictatorship if they can't even protect Pakistan from India or or or protect the country's honor from India and so on. So the military is has no option but to try and retaliate against India. It's a it's a do or die situation. It's a matter of life and or death for the Pakistani military. So it is guaranteed they're going to try then we're going to keep keep trying something. They are trying to attack Jammu right now. Just before I came in to where I am right now, I saw on TV on sen TV the Pakistani drones were trying to target Jammu drones or missiles whatever it was. And I could see the S S400 in action or whatever mechanism we were using. So they are going to keep on trying this. They're going to try something. So what are the things they could try? They'll try and launch missiles at various Indian cities and we don't have terror infrastructure. So they're going to try and hit civilian infrastructure for Pakistan. Everything is fine. It's a terrorist nation. So they're going to try and hit civilians. Yesterday or day before it was they they were targeting civilians in in Punchch in Rajari in Jammu. Uh number of civilians died. A young brother and sister you know siblings died and some six people died. Three sick people in Gurudala died. And apparently the Pakistanis tried to launch a missile at the Golden Temple in Amritsar. Yeah, they tried to take out the golden temple in Amritsur and then they would have I'm sure through their proxies in the Kalistthani proxies in Canada and the US they would have tried to pin the pin the blame on India. That's what they tried. So they're going to try all these nefarious methods and the military means are not going to work because their military is no match for India's military and if they hit an Indian city by some by some means then it's going to be a significant escalation and India is going to respond very brutally to that. Now another thing they can do because they are a terrorist nation is that they could try carry out terrorist attacks on Indian cities. We all know what happened in Mumbai in 2008. They could try something like that again. I am sure they have sleeper cells in India. It's not hard for a nation like Pakistan to have sleeper cells in India. Uh let me assure you of that. Okay. So they could try something like that. And unfortunately there are many Pakistan sympathizers within India. It's I'm re reiterating the same thing in a different way but uh you know what I mean. So that's something they could try. So we're going to have to be on high alert. See, we are now a nation at war. India is a nation at war. India is going to have to be on high alert. It's no longer business as usual. You may be living in a city far from the border. You may be living wherever you are. You have to now be on high alert. All citizens and the government and government machinery and so on. So um so what should India do? India will have to take extra precautions in civilian places in civilian areas and cities, towns, villages, wherever else. We're going to have to be extra alert in strategic locations like airports and uh um airports and malls and train stations and whatnot, ports, all of that. And if Pakistan tries to escalate through military means, we should be ready to take care of that as well. and they're going to try every means that they have at their disposal. So yeah, we should expect more uh mischief from Pakistan and we should consider oursel ourselves to be a nation that is now in a state of war. Anuman Chri says, "What percentage chance would you give this scenario escalating into a fully blown nuclear uh war? a Pakistani retaliation seems imminent and therefore an Indian one because India is not going to back down now anymore. Do you think Pakistan eventually could resort to their nuclear weapons in a realistic scenario? Um I don't think Pakistan will dare resorting to the nuclear weapons because that could be the end of Pakistan. And look u if if the nation is gone then what will the military rule and what will what will their legitimacy be be anymore right? They won't have any legitimacy anymore. The the military has this luxurious lifestyle. At least the top generals and the top brass of the military. They have this tremendously luxurious lifestyle. They have tremendous amounts of money pilered from the nation from the people of Pakistan. All their relatives live in the west, London or in the US or or in in I don't know whatever other place, right? and uh and and so if they lose the nation that they have then uh whatever power they have will be gone whatever golden goose they have Pakistan and its people that will be gone so it doesn't make sense to do that and if they have relatives in Pakistan those those relatives will also evaporate literally uh so I think that if push comes to shove they will decamp and depart out Pakistan they will escape from Pakistan and that could leave Pakistan with an unstable leadership and unstable scenario in which you have loose nukes fly floating around that's a very dangerous situation so we don't want to go towards that right so I doubt very strongly that uh Pakistan will even think of actually genuinely using nuclear weapons and obviously it is for us in India and for our military and our our leadership to ensure that We do this in a in a calibrated manner. Now the word calibrated is thrown around a lot these days. Our strikes were calibrated. Our response was calibrated. Do you know what calibration means in in physics? Calibration means you you measure something out properly. You you you have a scale of measurement, let's say centimeters or inches or whatever. Then you if you have an instrument that you want to use to measure something, you have to uh tune the instrument. let's say um in by comparing it with an existing instrument that's already tuned. It's like tuning a guitar or something. So that's the process of calibration to to to be very clear about what your measurements are and you know what you want to do with those measurements. So that's the calibration. So we're going to have to calibrate our approach our our uh military approach towards Pakistan. If you strike at them, how much do we strike? How hard do we strike? Where do we strike? Where do we not strike? What do we not touch? What do we destroy? and so on. And that's something you have to really think through. And that's not something you do during wartime. You do that during peace time. You war game all the scenarios and you simply execute that during wartime. So we would already have calibrated out and thought everything out what our responses could be and should be to various provocations and various situ situations and scenarios and we are simply implementing executing that right now. So I don't think it's going to take a nuclear dimension. And if the Pakistanis make the incredible mistake of using nukes where it's the end of the story for Pakistan, it's not going to be the end of the world. It's going to be the end of Pakistan. We may have to absorb some damage. Sure. But if they use one nuke, it's the end of Pakistan. That's that's a promise guarantee. And look, civilized people should not even discuss using nukes. Nukes should never ever be used. You know it's it's a horrible weapon. So Dhanush says, "What do you think the nature of the Pakistani response would be given that the attacks by India were publicly visible to the Pakistani population with a 100% success rate? They would be under some pressure to respond or the army's aura of invincibility they have in Pakistan would be threatened. Do you really think they'd try and hit Indian military installations? in if so what would India do in my opinion yeah so the question is how far can this go we're not discussing the nuclear matter here we already discussed that in the last question so what can the Pakistan response be either they hit Indian military in installations which is difficult or they hit Indian civilian areas which is much easier because it's impossible for any military in the world to defend every inch of its territory so it's very easy to hit Indian civilian areas of course if you use missiles and we can take it them out with for uh air defense systems and so on. S400 but we don't have S400s everywhere. So uh they could try and hit Indian civilian targets which could be pretty bad if that happens. Right? Then they can try terror attacks and they can try activating sleeper cells that they may or may not have within India and they could try something like they tried during the Mumbai attacks. You know these are scenarios that we should be uh aware of, right? These things could happen. It's a terrorist nation we're talking about. they can try anything. Uh so that's another thing they could try. Um so the question is if they do such things, what can India do in response in my opinion? Well, if they're going to do something, we're going to do it twice as hard, twice as hard. If they hit let's say an Indian city, okay, if they if one of their missiles goes through and hits an Indian city and unfortunately people um there are casualties, let's say, civilian casualties, what will India do? We obviously won't hit a Pakistani city. We don't do such things. But we're going to take out some big military installations and we're going to you know give them real pain. Not the people but the military. So that's going to have that's something that could happen. If you know if if push comes to shove then what's the worst thing that could happen? The worst thing is that India you know makes a move on Pakistani territory. what I have spoken about before a scenario that I call the pulse pause war. So Indian um infantry, Indian tanks make a certain move into Pakistan. Not a blitzkrieg move which is punching a hole but a wide frontal move and you take a decent amount of Pakistani territory move 10 20 30 maybe 50 kilometers into Pakistani territory. You grab the territory then you unilaterally declare a pause. That's it. We're going to stop here. So it's not life-threatening for Pakistan. It's not like the whole nation is is going to be overrun. It's just that we have delivered a military and political defeat to you and don't do this again because next time will be worse. So that's what I think could happen. And now I am not giving some special guan to Pakistan and dulging military secrets. I am speculating here and these are scenarios that every military leader, every military expert will work through this and 100 other scenarios. Okay. Uh so that's something that could happen and and the Pakistanis militarily are no match for India. So we would succeed in this and that's the scenario in which you talk about you know everybody wants to talk about taking back P or whatever that would happen. we would take back musabad or or lahor probably not lahar because that's too many people there and we don't want to deal with them but we would take territory for sure uh so that would be a a clear defeat for Pakistan military and political and that's what we would do so that's I think as far as it will go right now and our objective is to essentially end the legitimacy of the Pakistani ISI military terrorist um entity which is seen by the Pakistani people as being the legitimate ruler of Pakistan. So we need to show to the people of Pakistan that this is an illegitimate organization and the the one claim that they have that makes them legit which which gives them legitimacy that we can defend against India even that is hollow that's what we have to show to the Pak people of Pakistan and then what should happen is that Sinduh should declare independence Balojasthan should declare independence Kashmir should say that P should say we want to go back to India and Khibar Pakunwa should open the border with Afghanistan. That's what needs to happen and that's the eventual objective. Dano again says, "What are your thoughts on what's happening in the punch sector more where more than 15 civilians have been killed in Pakistani shelling and many more have been injured, schools and houses have also been impacted? How should India handle the situation?" See, this is classic Pakistani uh behavior. They can't target the Indian military. Um so they're going to target civilians. They tried targeting the Indian military and didn't work. Didn't work. So they'll try targeting Indian civilians and civilians are a soft target, easy target. It's such a huge nation. You can't defend every inch of the territory. So you're going to always have some civilians who can easily become targets of Pakistani uh military terrorism. Right? So that's what happened in PCH. They they um they shelled the town and a large number of people civilians died. It is like another pahelgam that they have done right uh that they destroyed a guru dwara at least three people there died three sick people and so on so classic Pakistani behavior targeting in innocent helpless civilians how should India handle this by piling on the pain on the Pakistani military that's going to continue we are in a state of war and we have to show the people of Pakistan the military is illegitimate they can't even defend you they can't even defend your territory Indian nation and themselves the military can't even defend itself and its terrorist pets. That's what we what we have to show to the people of Pakistan and that's what's happening. Prayal says that uh with Pakistan's economy in deep distress could operation Sindur act as a tipping point intensifying the internal collapse of Pakistan and leading to serious political instability. Today the Karachi Stock Exchange closed early after a near 7,000 point crash amidst repeated drone strikes across cities. Trading was suspended. How do you read this development in the broader strategic and regional security context? Are we witnessing a slow motion unraveling of a fragile state under calibrated Indian pressure? That's precisely what's happening. Yes, this is going to have multi multi-dimensional impact on Pakistan. Multiple impacts in multiple dimensions, domains and areas. uh first of all it has a deep impact on the psyche of the people of the of the nation. The nation as a collectively has a morale has a psyche and every nation needs victory to feel good about itself and when this sort of thing happens it it leaves a huge scar in your psyche in the collective consciousness. So the Pakistani people's morale I promise you has crashed has plummeted it's it's it's a negative figures right now. Um, so that's one thing that's happened. The army, I I assure the Pakistani civilians, if this continues, they will no longer see the army as as a legitimate uh dictatorial force and whatever support exists for the army will evaporate. All the grievances, all the misrule of the army will come to the four and there's going to be a significant uh push back uh against the army. That that's another thing that will happen. Economically Pakistan is already in deep deep deep trouble, dire straits that's going to worsen, right? The water situation is going to be another pain point because we no longer u uh you know the indust water treaty no longer stands right the Shimla agreement is gone but the the water is going to be a problem. We can, you know, give them a shortfall of at least 10% of water, 10% less or more. We can release water uh abruptly if required. You know, it it sounds terrible, but that's what you do to a terrorist nation. There's there's no other way to make them behave. You have to do all these things in tandem. So the water situation is going to be bad which means that crops will fail and uh then they will have to import food food stuffs food grains all that which already when you have a tottering economy that that makes things even worse there's going to be shortages and who's to blame the army the military the terrorists they are to blame not India is not to blame the military is to blame the Pakistani military so the people will blame the Pakistani military and once again that's going to make things very difficult for the military so overall you're going to see disenchantment, disaeffection rising in Pakistan and then all the old grievances will come to the four. Synindu des will want independence. Balojasthan already wants independence that will that will come up. Um the pashons want to reunite with Afghanistan and they should. So eventually the nation will break up. It should have broken up a long time ago but it's always external forces that have kept it together. Now the US has taken its hands away. Pakistan now is once again a creature of China. So the Chinese will try and perhaps stabilize Pakistan. They'll try. Let's see how long and how far that succeeds. So that is the situation. We are indeed witnessing the beginning of the slow motion unraveling of the Pakistan nation. I said this a couple of weeks ago that the Pahelgam attack was at pingpoint. It was an inflection point point for Pakistan and the countdown for Pakistan started that day whatever date it was 25th of April or whatever it was that was the biggest mistake Pakistan did in its history and the end the countdown for Pakistan started that day the clock is now ticking it's ticking backwards ticking it's ticking towards zero it may take it may reach zero in 3 months or 6 months or 3 years or 10 years whenever it does but the countdown has started it's begun and uh soon unfortunately time will be up for Pakistan and I hope it doesn't uh uh you know cause too much suffering to the people but if it does well you know who you know who's to blame it's not us who is to blame it's your leadership it's the Pakistani ISI military terrorism entity that is to blame for everything that's going wrong in Pakistan you can't blame India for it we are simply defending ourselves and we've had enough. Surendra Gupta says Pakistan is doing heavy firing in the punch area. They fired a chi they fired Chinese missiles on on the night of May the 7th after the air strike from India and the Chinese missiles were shot down by the Indian air defense system. But do you think a fullscale war is inevitable? I think we are now possibly entering a phase of a new normal. A new normal phase. The old normal was Pakistan terrorism, crossber terrorism, infiltration across the LOC, infiltration across the international border of terrorists into India and then this terrorists will unleash mayhem periodically sporadically in various parts of India whether it's Punjab or Jammu and Kashmir or various other whatever other part of India that was the old normal and India would simply try and eliminate the terrorists within its territory and we would typically not do take any action across the border. That was the old normal. The new normal I believe could be this state of war, low inensity war possibly. Now the Pakistanis, they may still keep on trying to infiltrate terrorists, but now we're going to be bombarding their positions. We're going to be taking out Pakistani installation, military installations and terrorism installations. We're going to go after the terrorists in a multiplicity of ways. So a a low inensity war is already in effect right now. Uh could it become a full-scale war? It all depends on the choices that Pakistan makes going forward. If they target civilians, that's going to be you know the one thing the Indian government will not tolerate is Pakistan targeting civilians, Indian civilians. We've lost too many civilian lives, innocent lives and the government will not tolerate that anymore. If they target civilians, it's India will respond like 10 times as hard and we won't target their civilians will target their military and then let's see whatever happens. We'll see. So it's it's up to Pakistan what choices the Pakistanis make. What choices does Aim Munir make and his generals and his military make? That is what's going to determine whether a full-scale war happens. And if it happens, it's going to be a pulse pause war. 72 hours at most. 72 hours at most. After which we will declare a unilateral pause after taking Pakistani territory. And then we're going to tell them you want more of this, let us know. We can do more. We can do this forever. So yeah, a war, a genuine war, a highintensity war is certainly possible depending on the choices the Pakistanis make. Ro Rudand belt initiative says I have noticed the the hate for Hindus in Pakistan is much more than other religions. Um it's unfortunate but true. You know in India there are lots of people who say that you know we are the same people. Uh we are the same blood. We have the same ancestors, same culture, same uh traditions. Apart from religion everything is the same. True. Sure. Okay. Wonderful. We are the same blood. Look I am from western India. Okay. uh Pakistan is is a next door state for me for for the for for you know the region that I my heritage is from. So I I know I will have relatives across the border. I not close relatives but distant relatives for sure guaranteed. We are all related to each other in India. You go back 20 generations half of the country is related to each other. We may not realize it. We may not know it but we are. So we all have blood relatives in Pakistan and they hate us. You know blood doesn't matter unfortunately. DNA doesn't matter. If it mattered then Greece and Turkey would not be enemies. Who are the people of Turkey? They are converted Greeks but they want every Greek person dead. Do you understand that? Blood doesn't matter. Sadly DNA doesn't matter. It's your culture that matters. And Pakistan's culture sadly is that of hatred. I'm not saying all Pakistanis hate Hindus and all Pakistanis hate India. Some of them don't. And I'm glad some of them don't. We have some viewers on this channel who are from Pakistan. Um but sadly the majority of Pakistan hates India. Most Pakistanis hate Hindus. They'll be happy to see us bleed literally. I would say maybe 90% of Pakistanis hate Hindus and hate India and it's it's drilled into them. It's indoctrinated into them from their childhood onwards. Maybe it's not their fault. Let's say but what can I do about it? Right? Somebody let's say somebody has been brainwashed into thinking that he should kill me. I know it's not his fault that he was brainwashed but hey, I've got to defend myself. So either he dies or I die. That's sadly where we are. Sadly, so yes, you know, there are these people in India who say that, you know, we are the same people and we should not hate the Pakist I don't hate Pakistani people. I have met lots of Pakistanis outside of the country. You go anywhere in the west, you'll meet Pakistanis. You go to the US, you go to the UK, you go to Europe, you'll meet Pakistanis. You go to even the Gulf region, you'll meet Pakistanis. Um that's how it is. And most Pakistanis as individuals are are nice people. you know uh but deep down most of them maybe 90% of them hate Hindus and hate India sadly and it's so sad that we are in the situation but it is what it is so we have to remember that okay please remember that and uh if you have any sense you should uh not hate them back but be aware that they'll do they'll be happy to do anything to you. So we've got to take care of ourselves. We've got to look out for ourselves in our self-defense. That's what we have to understand. We have to understand the nature of the enemy. We may not see them as enemies, but they see his as enemies. So we are enemies then. Right there. There we have it. That's how it is. Okay. This is a big question. Samart says why did Chinese origin air defense systems HQ9/PLY80 HQ22 HQ11 and FN6 man pads deployed by Pakistan during India's operation Synindur fail to intercept various kinds of Indian cruise missiles and drones and scalp cruise missiles and other aerial threats? What do what does the downing of a Pakistani JF17 Nakur and the discovery of two PL-15E missile debris you know Sharpur Punjab reveal about the shortcomings of Pakistani of of Chinese missile missile systems. Could these failures be attributed to China's reliance on reverse engineered technologies and its lack of major war experience since the 1979 sign of Vietnam war? With China not having engaged in a major war for approximately 46 years. If China were to engage in future conflicts such as over Taiwan or in the South China Sea, could similar failures in missile and jet interception occur due to untested technologies and other factors? That's a great question. Long question, but great question. You are right. Your observation is correct. China hasn't been involved in a major war since the 1979 defeat to Vietnam. They were defeated by Vietnam in 1979. I'll not go into the history of why that happened, but they were defeated by Vietnam. A much smaller and much weaker apparently nation, right? Um since then, the Chinese have not fought in a war and um they have a huge military budget. They're the second largest military budget in the world and they apparently have very good technology and all that but that is untested and yesterday and day before yesterday it was tested and it failed. Pakistan is equipped with Chinese uh air defense systems and those failed miserably. So that's a blow to the image and prestige of Chinese technology and it raises serious question marks about whether the Chinese can defend themselves in similar situations. Right. Uh I am not sure about the downing of the Pakistani jet. It looks like at least one JF7 has come down but the Indian government has not made any official statements about this. So I'm not going to comment about this right. It's not officially stated but it is almost certain that at least one Pakistani JF7 came down in um Indian territory. Um but since the government is not has not said anything I'll I'll not you know speculate about that. Now two Chinese missile debris were found in Osharpur. So those were longrange missiles fired apparently at Indian fighter planes which indicates that probably India used fighter planes in the operation on the Indian side of the border or LOC right we did not cross the LOC or the international border but we flew within our our territory. It looks like that. And the Pakistanis apparently tried to take out our fighter planes using these long range Chinese missiles. Those also failed, right? Uh and the missile debris have been discovered and they will now be examined by experts, by engineers and scientists, which which will be good. Um so it looks like there are big problems with Chinese defensive systems and offensive systems. The missiles did not hit their intended targets and uh the Chinese radars did not work. They did not detect the incoming drones which if they did would have been shot down. I would expect lots of drones hit the targets. Uh the Chinese missile the Chinese radars and air defense systems did not detect India's loitering drones which were calmly filming the strikes that we were doing on the on the Pakistani terrorist infrastructure. Those videos were filmed by Indian loitering drones. They were not filmed filmed by a vlogger, right? We had drones on over those those terrorist uh headquarters and all that. Calmly loitering and filming and the Pakistanis could not hit those drones. Incredible. So big questions now arise about the quality of these Chinese systems. Apparently the Chinese had sold their best systems, the highquality systems, not the export versions but the real versions to the Pakistanis and those have failed miserably. Um so I I don't want to speculate as to why these failures happened and can we attribute this to the fact that the Chinese have reverse engineered various western technologies? I don't know. Maybe it's because they've reverse engineered in a poor way. Maybe maybe they developed it on their own. I don't know about that. Okay. um our experts will examine those missiles and their radars and seekers and all that and we'll get some interesting information from that. But obviously those missiles don't work. Our missiles are better. But anyway, there's no harm re you know um uh there's no harm taking apart the enemy's systems and examining them so that we understand we get an understanding of their capabilities, technological capabilities. So yeah, it's it's good to know that the Chinese systems don't work very well. They didn't work at all unfortunately for the Pakistanis and for the Chinese. Next by Pranipal. With the heat of operation Sindur and pressure mounting on Pakistan, how do you assess China's silent but calculative posture especially with with its interest in Pakistan occupied Jammu and Kashmir through the China Pakistan economic corridor? Could this evolving situation corer China into choosing be between its economic ambitions and regional stability? Is Pakistan occupied Jammu and Kashmir emerging as a real geopolitical fault line in Asia right now? Um yeah, but see the Pakistanis no longer have the master have they've been served divorce papers by America. In 2022, the Americans conducted a regime change operation in Pakistan. They had Imran Khan ousted and uh the Sharif fellow Shbaz Sharif became the prime minister the the the nominal prime minister of Pakistan. What really happened is that the Americans once again took charge of the Pakistan military. The military switched its allegiance to the Americans and they put a puppet prime minister in place and Pakistan became once again a US vasal. In 24 the same thing happened in Bangladesh. Shikharina was ousted and Bangladesh was turned into East Pakistan. Both these things happened under the Biden regime, right? With Trump coming to power, the Americans have washed their hands off Bangladesh as well as Pakistan. So Pakistan is now fishing for a new master and obviously that master can only be China. There's nobody else that can play that role. And the same thing is happening in Bangladesh. Muhammad Yunus was in China and he was he was saying that you know we can cut India's far east northeast off and make it a landlocked place and that's why Pakistan that's why China should invest in Bangladesh and so on. So both east and west Pakistan are fishing for a new master in Beijing. Uh and Beijing will be happy to oblige. Right? So China has taken the side of Pakistan. You know everybody after the the the terror attack happened in Pahelgam most civilized nations uh issued statements in support of India and in solidarity with India. Most civilized nations did. I don't think I've seen China issue any statement. So, China has chosen not to stand on the side of civilized nations. Right? So, that's one thing we have seen. Now, after India struck back at Pakistan and paid them back in in in a language they understand. The Chinese criticized India and and they stood in favor of Pakistan. They made statements in favor of Pakistan. Now we know that the Pakistan that the Chinese have this project this failed project this miserably failed project called the China Pakistan economic corridor which is an extension of their failed built in road initiative right but it's a project that the Chinese have invested significant amounts of money in billions of dollars and it gives them strategic access to to Pakistan to the Pakistan occupied Kashmir region to the port um in in Guada AR and that's valuable for the Chinese. So they would like to uh retain their their their control and hold over this right and now that Pakistan is once again a Chinese vas they would want to exert more control over the all these pieces of infrastructure. So now that operation synindur is ongoing and India and Pakistan are at war and Pakistan is on the receiving end and Pakistan could you know if things continue like this it it could spontaneously combust and disintegrate that would be bad for China that would be terribly bad for China. Uh so China has been making statements in favor of Pakistan. Um could they actually try and come to ch to to Pakistan's rescue or aid? Uh their economic ambitions are faltering. The tariffs that the Americans have imposed that Trump has imposed on China are really hurting. I assure you that they are hurting. Right. So um so China is currently in a state under a state of siege. it is besieged and u if and and it essentially has only two vasals in the world. One is North Korea, one is Pakistan. Russia isn't a Chinese vasal. Russia is uh sadly currently in a position of being kind of a junior partner to China because of China's enormous economic clout. Uh but Russia is not exactly a pushover. It's kind of a junior partner right now for now. But China and Russia are long-term strategic adversaries, not allies. So, China has a few friends. One is Russia for now. It's it's a strange modus vendi they have with with Russia. They have two vasals in in in North Korea and Pakistan. And they also have a strategic ally in Iran because of the West's attitude and approach towards Iran. So, Iran had no choice but to look towards Russia and China for help. Right? Um so now if Pakistan shows signs of uh soon disintegrating what can Pak what can China do about this? Can they somehow stabilize Pakistan? They can certainly stabilize Pakistan by by giving a huge inflow of money to Pakistan. They can do that but money can't really help you much when your nation is is fragmenting right and is is China in a position to shore up Pakistan's defenses it can certainly supply weapons that takes time but they can try and do that but if China tries to get directly involved in Pakistan they're going to you know it's not going to end well for them also so China is right now going to be in a dilemma right now it's not the situation isn't that are bad. Pakistan isn't showing signs as of right now of of soon disintegrating. But the longer this war situation lasts, right now it's just 2 days. But what if it becomes two weeks and this becomes the new normal? The Pakistanis try to keep on striking India and India keeps on actually striking Pakistan and it it it India keeps on jabbing away. In boxing there is this this punch called the jab. You just keep on jabbing jabbing jabbing jabbing and over 10 rounds you can rearrange a person's furniture facial furniture just by one p the jab. So if India keeps jabbing at Pakistan, jabbing, jabbing, jabbing, in two weeks time Pakistan's furniture will be significantly rearranged and the nation's morale will be at an abysmal low and the people could stand up and and you know you go up in arms against the military and then the the military will see their own people as the enemy and that will be a huge issue. Then India can just step back and watch you know and then what can China do? So it's it's China could soon be in a big dilemma if the situation continues. If the current state of war becomes the new normal, if it persists beyond 3 or 4 days, if it lasts two weeks or two months, good god, it's the end of Pakistan and China really won't know what to do. So yeah, Pranal has asked a lot of good questions. So I'm taking those. uh if the situation around Pakistan occupied Jammos and Kashmir escalates and leads to Pakistan's fragmentation or balkcanization what should we realistically expect from China especially regarding China Pakistan economic corridor Gilg with Baltistan its growing presence in Baluchasthan will China double down to secure its strategic interests or might it quietly reposition and retreat to avoid global backlash how should India prepare for any ch potential Chinese moves amidst Pakistan's internal collapse We should be ready for all eventualities. Look the Chinese have a small border with Pakistan. Uh the you know Pakistan occupied Jammu and Kashmir and Tibet have a border right and the Pakistanis in the past they gave away the Shakcom Valley to the Chinese and so on. So there's a small corridor. I mean let's take a look at the map. We have hardly opened the map today. Uh let's take a look at the map and see what kind of a geographical situation the two nations share. So let's zoom in to the northern part of India and uh as you can see you know so this shows the correct map of India. Google has been kind enough to do that. But um the truth is that Gul Gilgit and Hunza Nagar etc. These portions of Jammu and Kashmir are currently temporarily under Pakistani occupation and it abetss on u this part of Chinese occupied territory the the the Shinjang region right the Sinjang region not the Tibet region but the Shinjang region so um there is a small uh border let's say boundary between Chinese occupied territory and Pakistan occupied territory but it's tremendously mountainous let's let's take Take a look at the actual topography of the region. As you can see, it is extremely mountainous and you can't really drive tanks through it or some or or it's it's really hard to navigate this terrain on foot on tank or on armored vehicles or even jeeps. That's how difficult it is. So if if China if if Pakistan is showing signs of let's say disintegrating. Okay. Um it's it's going to be really hard for the Chinese to step in and and stop that. It's going to be really hard for the Chinese to stop that. They I'm sure they'll be tempted to do that do that but it won't be easy. But India should be aware of the possibility of the Chinese trying something. They have a road that goes into into Pakistan occupied Kashmir. And the Chinese have had in the past few years a history of doing military uh military drills with Pakistan in Pakistan occupied Kashmir. And maybe there is some Chinese small or medium scale Chinese military presence in Pakistan occupied Kashmir. Maybe in uh Balojasthan as well. So the Chinese presence is there to some extent in in Pakistan in various parts of Pakistan especially those parts of Pakistan that are of our interest because of well all of Pakistan is of our interest for historical reasons but you get you get what I mean. So the Chinese may try to u try they may try to stabilize Pakistan if it is showing signs of disintegrating. So India should be very much aware of this and if push comes to shove and we have to take military action, we should factor in the possibility of a Chinese uh presence or element that we have to deal with militarily in the region. So I'm sure it's already been factored in into all our uh calculations already. I'm sure. I'm pretty sure. Mr. Atus says out of topic. Not really out of topic. It's actually on topic but good question. Why is it that India has received countless u uh numbers? Yeah. Why has India been so much at the receiving end of western sponsored terrorism at the hands of Pakistan? Good question. But China hasn't ever been at the receiving end of Western sponsored terrorism. Even though China has proved to be the West's biggest enemy and the West literally sits at the back of the Chinese yard. Okay. So what Mr. 88 is saying is that we know that India that Pakistan has bled India through terrorism essentially since 1979 and it has done so at the behest of the US of the west of the UK. The Pakistani defense minister has said this at least two times in the past two weeks and even Bilawal Bhau the son of Benaz Bhau has said this on western media on Sky TV I think at least once. So now the Pakistanis have admitted that they have been doing this. They have been indulging in terrorism against their their neighbors especially India at the behest of the west. They have been doing it for the west to serve the western geopolitical interests. They were simply mercenaries. They were simply service providers. They have admitted this. So it becomes very clear now that what I have been saying for the past two three years is now vindicated. It's true. India has suffered from terrorism at the hands of Pakistan. Terrorism that was funded and financed primarily by the United States from the 1970s and 80s onwards. Very clear that it is proven now. Pakistan has admitted this on the record. Pakistan government officials extremely highranking government officials have admitted this. So India has been at the receiving end of western terrorism right for decades but done by Pakistan. But how come China hasn't been treated that way by the west? It's because the Chinese were smart and we were not. You see our leaders weren't smart. The Chinese were smart. The Chinese they they tricked the west into aiding and abetting the rise of China, the economic and industrial rise of China. The West midwifed this. The West opened their market to the Chinese. So the West wanted cheap manufacturing and they gave it to China. They gave their technology to China. They had China manufacture everything. They gradually transferred more and more sophisticated technology to to China and the Chinese became masters in a few decades of all these manufacturing processes and all of these technologies and they absorbed all the technology. So they became a huge manufacturing power because the west allowed this and the west you know the Chinese told the west you know you teach us all these things and slowly we will become like you. the west and the Americans thought that by opening our markets to to the Chinese we'll eventually make them a democratic nation by seeing how superior we are and all that eventually they'll become a democracy like us that's what they thought and the exact opposite of of that happened the Chinese played a very very smart intelligent long game and we in India played a stupid game our leaders played a stupid game we could have done that. We were already a nation that had a lot of exposure to the west because of the 250 years of British occupation of India. We were familiar with western ways. We could have been the manufacturing power. We could have done all of that but we chose not to. We chose to be a socialist nation and we chose to sit on the side of the USSR which is okay. But we we kept on harping our our leaders kept on harping on that we are a non-aligned nation while actually aligning with the USSR. And what did we gain by aligning with the USSR? Did we gain technology? Did we ask for it? Did we say to the USSR that you stop manufacturing, we'll manufacture, we'll manufacture everything for you. We did none of that. We had no vision. Our leaders had no vision. So we were simply an inconvenient nation that lied that liked to uh take the moral high ground and lecture the world and not take care of our interest. So that's why the west that's why the US decided to invest in Pakistan instead of India and use Pakistan as a counterbalance to India. Had we played the game better, had we been smart about it, we could have been the Chinese. We could have been China. But our leaders had no vision. They had no standards and that's why we were at the receiving end of decades of western funded and financed Pakistani terrorism and China were not because our leaders were stupid that's why that's this is a great question Mr. Ediator has asked really now says looks like the facade of any India China friendship is now over but we let shine and other brands in in partnership with Reliance I'm not sure about that but okay uh did the government do good by not applying not not approving the BYD investment but then what about the Chinese needing the Indian market they must have a good plan and options since they've decided to finally openly resume to show hostility at least in the UN and on social media. Uh anyway, it's clear that we are on the western camp for the first time since independence. Ho ho what's the way forward. We are when it comes to China, we are now on the western camp clearly and the west will have been told by us that you keep out of the India Pakistan matter. Let us deal with Pakistan. You tell the Pakistanis to to tone it down otherwise we're going to be very harsh on them. And don't pressure us. If you want us to be on your side visa v China, you got to stay out of the Pakistan matter and let us deal with it. That will be the deal. And that's why Trump is staying out of it. Very clearly staying out of it. Very openly staying out of it. Now the past year or so, the Chinese have been trying to be friends with us. Uh I am personally aware of the Chinese attempts to be friends with us. Um so uh and then there's been some some actual action on the ground. Um in 2020 there was the DLAM incident. 20 Indian troops died at the hands of the Chinese and about 100 Chinese troops died at the same fight. Um, ever since then the two armies, the two nations have been engaged in this very tense standoff in the Himalayan Heights uh along the undemarcated India Tibet border, Chinese occupied Tibet and um soldiers standing in incredibly high altitudes, 8,000 uh meters at times. Uh if you go to Ladak, it's hard to to walk for most people, you know. um there's very little oxygen up there in the in in those heights and you have soldiers who have to carry equipment and all. So it's it's very grueling, very very um very difficult and hundreds of thousands of soldiers on both sides staring each other down from close range. That's the situ that's what the situation was like. The past one year there's been one could say significant disengagement from both sides. So the the tensions have come down, the temperature has come down, patrolling uh has resumed in the old style in the old areas and all that and u yeah the hostilities have come down the possibility of something going really badly wrong between the two nations has also come down but at the same time the Chinese are doubling down on infrastructure on their side of the border. So it's not like so the close proximity standoff is gone but the Chinese are you know entrenching themselves and and uh enhancing their military infrastructure on the Tibet side of the border. So it's not like all is well the Kailash manser over Yatra will resume soon. So there are some so-called confidence building measures and all and uh the Chinese they they probably did this because they could sense that the western markets were soon going to be a thing of the past for them. They would no longer have access to it and that's precisely what's happened with the tariffs that Trump has imposed on them. So the Chinese probably thought that we can we would like to have access to the Indian market and if we you know show signs of friendship then that could happen. So if we lose the access to the western and European markets and American market then we can have access to the Indian market and we can keep uh exporting to the Indians. That probably was uh a scenario that they were trying to uh make happen. But now with whatever has happened now they have chosen to stand on the side on the side of Pakistan. So um that that's the end of that that's the end of the uh so-called India China haposhimo that supposedly was happening uh I don't see that happening anymore um I'm not sure about shine or whatever it is uh who has come in we can always ask them to leave if that's the case and I'm not sure about the BYD investment either I'm not really looked into those matters so I cannot answer your question but big picture macro perspective u the the India China is is now a thing of the past clearly. Mrianka Seeker Biswis says with the Chinese state media amplifying false narratives about India's operation synindur. Yeah, good point. Good point. Uh Beijing's defense technology stumbling in a visibly tighter China Pakistan access. Are the Chinese officially now playing big daddy hood to Pakistan in the Indian subcontinent's power games? The short answer is yes. The Chinese are the new big daddy of Pakistan. Pakistan is now a Chinese vasal once again. For the majority of the 20th century, they were a US vasal. Um, in the early 2000s, they were a US vasal. Once Osama bin Laden was discovered and taken out allegedly by the Americans, the Americans then kind of lost interest in Pakistan. And for a decade or so from maybe 10 2012 to 2022 the Pakistanis were a Chinese vasal state. In 2022 for a brief period of time the Americans took over again. They affected a regime change operation in Pakistan. They ousted Imran Khan threw him into jail and brought a new puppet prime minister into power. Shabbash Sharif who is not in power is just in in his seat. And for a while the Chinese the Pakistanis again became an American masal that was during the Biden regime. Now Biden is gone. Trump is in power and Trump wants India on his side. So out with Pakistan. He is no longer interested in Pakistan. So Pakistan is now fending for itself. They the Pakistanis have been served divorce papers by the Trump administration. So they are now looking for a new big daddy and obviously that's China and China will be happy with that. So China is yes now the big daddy of Pakistan in the region right and you know for a while for a few months the Chinese media was saying nice things about India the global times was talking about India and China in a nice manner. The Global Times is a very harshly virulent uh media outlet. It's an official state uh Chinese state media outlet. But the past two days they have been trying to amplify China uh Pakistan's false claims about shooting shooting down I don't know how five Indian aircraft and so on absolute lies but the Chinese state media has been amplifying that and I tweeted what next are you going to claim that the the Pakistan is shot down a fleet of Indian UFOs and what what else so uh yes so the the Chinese media was very much it's it's still in the process of amplifying u lies is Pakistani lives about India's operations in the world. So yes, the Chinese are very much on Pakistan's side and they are now officially Pakistan's big daddy. The Americans have, you know, moved away from Pakistan because they need India on their side in the entire big geopolitical reset that we are seeing right now. A huge a huge geopolitical reshuffle happening in real time in the world. You can see it happening day by day. The world order is rearranging itself. It is being rearranged by these power moves of the US and other nations and India has to decide where it stands in the matter and it's a complicated game. When it comes to when it comes to Pakistan, we are very much on the side of the west. But when it comes to Russia, it's complicated. We are not that much on the side of the west. We will not give up on our relationship with Russia. We may make people believe for a while that it is so. For example, for example, I mean I even I I am guilty of amplifying that for a little bit. Let me tell you what happened. So um on the 9th of May, there is the Russia victory day parade in Moscow and Mr. Putin has invited uh President Xinping. President Shrimping has already reached Moscow. Mr. Putin had also also invited Prime Minister Modi to attend the same event. uh Prime Minister Modi uh said he he uh could not attend the event. He um and he had nominated Mr. Mr. Rajnat Singh to attend the event. India's defense minister. So a very high ranking minister was supposed to go to Moscow and attend the event. But then two days ago even Mr. the Rajnat Singh pulled out right and uh so it was a good time to tell the west that you know what India is becoming closer to the west and you can expect more India west tango in the next few months and India is now distancing itself from Russia but the actual reason why Mr. Modi and Mr. Rajnut Singh pulled out from the May 9 event is because there was another event planned for May 7th which was operation synindur right and so on. So yeah that's that's what actually happened. Okay photo one Patel says is war with China inevitable regardless of who's in power in China? Why do the Chinese feel threatened uh when it comes to India? Look, war with China is not even inevitable, but if we are not careful, we could get embroiled in a war with China. Under what circumstances could we get embroiled in a war with China? If the Chinese don't respect us enough and are not scared of us enough, then we could get embroiled in a war with China. See, the one thing that we have that is on the same level as China is the nuclear option. uh officially if you look at official western figures they said the Chinese have about 600 warheads and we have about 172 or something warheads so there's a discrepancy but when it comes to nuclear weapons even one is enough right but it is also true that no sane power no rational power actually wants to use nuclear weapons so if you take the nukes out of the picture that there's a huge disparity in the hard power of China versus the hard power of India the Chinese are about three and a half times more powerful than India India is small compared to China. China is three and a half times bigger. If India is 10 ft tall, China is 35 ft tall. Do you get it? That's what I mean. That's by simply measuring hard power, raw hard power, economic and military power put together essentially plus other other factors. So as long as the Chinese feel that a war with India will be will end will end badly for them as long as they feel that way there won't be a war with India. But if they feel that India can be pushed over and it'll be advantageous for the Chinese to go to war with India before India gets too big then probably war is inevitable. So the way to ensure there is no war is to be forever prepared for war. The only way you can have peace is by always be being ready for war. It's a paradoxical thing. So it means that India has to invest in its military. India has to keep investing more in its military budget. Maybe India needs to raise its military budget. Now that we are in a situation of war with Pakistan, Chinese may want to get involved. India should, I think, ramp up its military budget. See in 2021 number one military budget was America. Number two was China. Number three was who was it? Perhaps it was India. But today's India is number four. Why? Because Russia has shot up ahead of us. Russia's economy is way smaller than the Indian economy. But Russia's military budget is way ahead of us now because they are in a situation of war. the Ukraine war which is a proxy war against NATO. So very when you are in that situation you have to invest more in your military and you can do it without destroying your economy because by investing in the military you can actually set up more industry more industries more manufacturing industries which will generate employment and much more for the country. So you can create a military economy that's good for the country and also ramps up the military strength of the country. So I think it may be time for India to start in to start raising its military budget. Right? Uh it's something we should think about. The main thing is the Chinese will not go to war with India as long as they respect and fear us. Respect and fear are essentially two sides of the same coin. You don't respect someone you don't fear. Okay? Mostly in the world of geopolitics and hard power, respect and fear are are synonymous. So they have to be afraid of us to a certain extent and they have to be afraid that if they go to war with India they'll end up losing more than they will gain. Only in that case in that scenario will they choose not to go to war with India. But if you have this big nation of India and if breaking it up into multiple pieces will be advantageous for the Chinese they may seriously consider war with India. So war is not inevitable. War will not happen as long as we take the right precautions. We have to rise as as a military power as well as as an economic power and we have to be smart in doing that. We have to especially see we are a missile superpower. We have some of the best missiles in the world but we also need to uh invest in the naval aspect of our military. We need to become a genuine maritime power. We need to be visible all across the Indian Ocean. It's called the Indian Ocean. But when you are there in the Indian Ocean, do you see an Indian presence there? The Indian presence should be constant. Wherever you go, you should you should come across Indian warships, right? Then you can say it's your strategic backyard. And to do that, you have to stop investing in these giant obsolete monsters called aircraft carriers. You have to invest in scary stuff like submarines which are invisible and deadly. you to invest in cheap but dangerous things like missile boats. A missile boat which is like it costs $20 million but it can destroy a warship with three brahos missiles or something. So you have to be smart in doing this. So India needs to take these measures. Invest in the naval might in its naval might invest in submarines invest in various kinds of missiles not just 50 missiles or 100 missiles of one type but thousands of missile. We need to have a stockpile of thousands, maybe tens of thousands of missiles. Learn the lessons of the Ukraine war. Learn the lessons of the Iran Israel uh conflict. You need a stockpile of tens of thousands of missiles. A few hundreds will do nothing and so on. So, as long as we do these things, the Chinese won't go to war with us and then we can focus on growing our economy. That's what needs to happen. Chira Gavasti says considering that the IndiaPakistan conflict is unfolding against a complex geopolitical backdrop including the ongoing Ukraine Russia tensions, USChina rivalry and the growing bricks and global south realignment. How might this strike reshape India's relations with the West, Israel, Russia and the Islamic world? Do you foresee a shift where India's assertive military posture accelerates its rise as a system shaping power or might it invite new pressures and containment attempts from global stakeholders threatened by a confident India? Look, yeah, it's a very good question and the way we deal with this conflict the next few days is going to determine how the world now decides to look at us. We have the chance of completely reformulating or or reshaping the world the way the world sees us. Thus far the world sees India as a passive nation. When the Chinese Global Times makes a cartoon of India, they grow they draw India as this fat sleepy elephant. You know we have tigers as well in the country. We are the world's number one tiger nation. We have the most tigers of any nation in the world. So why but we are not depicted as a tiger. We are depicted as an elephant because we are a slow lethargic slowmoving nation and we are a passive nation. We have been a punching bag a soft state thus far. So the elephant is that kind of you know it it kind of to some extent embodies those qualities. We have to de we have to now show the tiger aspect of India. So if we deal with Pakistan appropriately in this in this current war that we are embroiled in, if we decisively defeat them militarily and politically, then the world will have to see India in a new light. They will have no choice but to see to look at India in a new light and then things will then then India will will be able to leverage that in a multiplicity of ways. So yes, what's happening, this conflict, this new war is unfolding against a very complex geopolitical backdrop. U the west has always wanted to to keep India down to put India in its place to not to not allow India to to stray off the reservation or or they want India to stay in its lane. But now is the time for India to demonstrate that we are no longer that soft, weak, passive nation and we stand up for ourselves and we mean business. This is the best possible opportunity. I think if we handle this current war properly, it's going to be a new trajectory for India. This is an inflection point. Bahelgam is a terrible atrocity the Pakistanis did on India, but it may have a silver lining. It it puts India on a new trajectory. I said it's an inflection point. It's going to be something that completely reshapes the way India approaches with with Pak, you know, approaches Pak the Pakistan issue and much more. And it is the beginning of the end for Pakistan. The the countdown has begun for Pakistan. So the next few days, the next couple of weeks are going to be crucial and if India does things right, then you know the world will have no option but to deal with India in a whole different way now and India will be a completely different beast going forward. So if we don't handle it right then the west will try to pressurize us and tell us to to to you know stop the conflict and contain it and all that. But so it's up to us as to to decide how to approach this. So we need to inflict. So in short in essence we need to either make this the new normal that Pakistan will be constantly hit by us as long as they don't behave or we have to inflict a quick military defeat on Pakistan ideally by taking some territory. One of these two things will happen in the next few days. Yeah it's a prediction I'm making. One of these two things will happen in the next few days. either this becomes the new normal and Pakistan becomes like Gaza for Israel. So the way Gaza is for Israel, Pakistan will be for India. Every time they do something like a terrorist strike, we're going to hit them multiple times and hit them hard and this will be an ongoing process perhaps or there's a short sharp war, a pulse pause war and we take some territory and then we shut them down. One of these two things will happen in the next few weeks, next couple of weeks. So get get gear up for that I would say. Pranay Paul says as operation sindur unfolds how do you view the muted or cautious response from major global power so far in is India's calibrated approach militarily precise yet diplomatically firm helping shape a new global perception of India as a responsible regional power internally too from air raid drills to communication strategy. Does this reflect a deeper national readiness for sustained geopolitical assertion? It does very much so. India is no longer the India of 2019. 2019 we did Balakot right and at that time it was something unheard of. Nobody had dreamt that India would do an air strike on Pakistan from within Pakistani territory. The first time since 1971 that India launched an air strike on Pakistan 2019, right? And yet one of our guys were shot down and uh we had to threaten Pakistan with with annihilation with a night of Brahos Brahos missiles for them to give to send Abinand commander Abinandaman back was 2019 that is no longer the case today's India is 6 years ahead of 2019 it's a whole different beast today we don't even need to send fighter planes across the border we can hit Pakistan at will from standoff distances. India is only going to keep keep getting stronger and more powerful in this manner. So India is no longer the India of 2019 and the world is watching cautiously right now. They are wondering what will India do? How will India approach this? If we show signs of weakness now then you know it'll be the same thing. It'll be the same old same old thing and we may kind of lose a little bit of credibility. And uh that will very very much reassure the west and the world that they they can handle this India. But if we do what I have been saying that we inflict a genuine proper military defeat on Pakistan or we make this war situation a new normal for Pakistan that they are constantly at war with India and they can't hit India. One of if one of these two things happens then um it will completely reshape the way the world looks at India. A lot of people will be very very deeply upset about about this. No qu question about it in the west. Um and they will try and paint India as a nonresponsible global power uh regional power whatever whatever you want to call it. But it needs to happen right now. They're waiting and watching. Um so yeah that's where we are and we need to you know deal with this the right way. Praneal again uh if Pakistan's in territorial integrity begins to dissolve post operation Sindor and the pahalam response how might global financial uh institutions like the IMF and FATF react could we see a shift in how rogue or failing states are economically handled in the in the multiple world also will India's assertive diplomacy now become a blueprint for other rising powers facing crossber terrorism and proxy warfare look we are the only major power uh facing crossber terrorism and proxy warfare. Nobody else does. Nobody else faces this and this is a legacy of the previous cold war. Um so um okay so that's that's so I address that part of the question. Now if Pakistan starts breaking up if its territorial integrity begins begins to dissolve post operation Sindur if Baljasthan declares independence if Sinduh declares independence if Kibar Pakta opens the boundary the border with Afghanistan and says we are now one with Afghanistan what happens? How does the IMF react? How does FATF or whatever react? They can't do much about this first of all, right? And they can only deal with sovereign nations. They cannot deal with nations that are whose boundaries are evolving and nations that don't really have a government. When when a nation is breaking up and its borders are being reshaped in real time, it means that nation has no viable government otherwise that would not happen, right? So when a nation is is rudderless like that uh IMF, the World Bank, whoever they are of no use and they can't do a thing about it. They just have to wait it out until the situation stabilizes and some kind of new governance entity emerges in that nation and then they can deal with that. Um so yeah that's the thing prrenal says given operation sindur and India's calibrated but but firm posture post pahelgam are we witnessing a shift in India's military doctrine from reactive deterrence to proactive containment could this be the long overdue strategic pivot to neutralize asymmetric threats permanently especially with global backing quiet quietly aligning it hap it helps if the global backing aligns uh with what is in your Uh I think we are definitely witnessing a shift in a change in India's military doctrine and this is a change I'm sure was planned from a long time ago. I'm sure after Bala court uh the next phase of retaliation in case something like this happens was planned. I'm sure this this process of planning happened over the course of a few years. But you know a nation like India has something called contingency plans. the next time Pakistan does X we will do this this this but if Pakistan does Y then we'll do that that that so we have a set of contingency plans for each scenario and these are all preddecided pre worked out well in advance and when something happens we simply execute so it means the doctrinal shift has already happened so yes you're right this is a shift in India's doctrine we are now seeing it in real We are no longer going to be a reactive nation that simply tries to deter by taking out terrorists from within our borders. Now we're going to go across the border and take out the terrorist infrastructure where at the roots. So yeah, it's long overdue and it's great. It it's time India behaves like this. The Baron Zemo says, "Do you do you believe India now needs to declare or adopt a clear offensive counter terror doctrine and state policy given the repeat provocations we have faced for decades?" I think it's happening. We are seeing it in action now. I it's very clear that the our approach to Pakistani uh terror uh operations has changed completely. It's very clear now. So we have a new doctrine clearly. We don't announce these things. You know the Americans like to put out their doctrines and publish them in the public domain. You can go to their websites and you can see their current doctrine which may not be the exact doctrine. I'm sure there is a secret doctrine as well which is not for public consumption but they try to the Americans have a policy of making everything public. We also have military doctrine but we don't make it public. So when the doctrine changes the world can see it only when it's executed, implemented. Uh so first of all most people want to know what a doctrine is in military terminology. How does things how do things work? Let's let's go bottom up. At the very bottom you have tactical operations, tactical execution. Tactics are something you train for tactics. Then above tactics you have strategy. Strategy. So strategy is one level above tactics. Then you have grand strategy. Above grand strategy you have doctrine. Above doctrine you have policy which is political policy and that is married with the worldview the way you see the world and what your interests are and so on. So you can create a nice diagram and show that. But um so doctrine is it's it's a combination of of art and science. That's what doctrine is. It's it doctrine essentially means this is how we do things. Okay. And when your doctrine changes it means that now we no longer do things this way. We do it now that way. That's the meaning of a change in doctrine. So clearly we have changed our doctrine at least when it comes to uh dealing with Pakistani terror activities. PS 1010 says crazy number of Indians who are not aligned with the Indian national interest. The blame lies with the Indian state for creating and cultivating these groups and keeping the majority in check for cre for keep for keeping the majority in check. But now there are so many groups like that. You have to look for actual Indians with the microscope. There are so many Indians who don't align with the Indian national interest. What's the reason for this? Multiple reasons. First of all, my viewers who are watching right now and who will see the recorded version, my question to you is this. Do you know what the Indian National Interest is? Has anyone taught you what the Indian national interest is? Did your school teacher, class teacher, your textbook teach you what India's specific national interest is? Did your college or university textbooks teach you? No, they did not. So, you don't know what the national interest is. Secondly, the education system does not tell you what the nation is, what it history is, who the enemies are. It doesn't tell you what's right, what's wrong, how to think properly. So that's why people are they end up all confused and with wildly differing worldviews when they come out of the education system. And their worldviews are typically shaped by the last few years of their education in college and university typically. and college and university especially when when you are in the arts and humanities it's it's shaped by by hard-left professors and teachers which is why these these kids the good innocent kids they end up all polarized and and indoctrinated with anti-nation ideas and views and that's that's the fault of the education system. If you want a highquality population that's aligned with the interests of their own civilization, you need the right kind of education system. Which is why I've been saying for so many years, we need to reform the education system. It's not enough to strike at Pakistan. The education system is creating enemies within India and your new education policy is like putting a band-aid. At the risk of repeating myself, it's like putting a band-aid on a gunshot wound. It's high time the government of India takes education reform seriously but it doesn't seem like it's the case. So um yeah there are so many Indians so many Indians who are not aligned with the Indian national interest unfortunately and that's sad and so visible it's so obvious it's so out there in your face you know. Okay, next question of Anvit says, "Given Pakistan's recent reactions and the potential for Aim Munir to escalate tensions in a face saving move, how do you think India should strategically position itself to further to prevent further provocation while ensuring it remains prepared for any unforeseen escalation especially in terms of military readiness, cyber warfare, international diplomacy? Diplomatically, we have to talk to everybody all every all of our friends and non-friend also. There are lots of nations who we are on friendly terms with. We need to engage with them diplomatically on an ongoing basis and explain to them what's happening and why we are doing what we are doing. Okay. We need to educate them about why are India and Pakistan fighting each other and who has started the fight and what's the cause and so so that's one element the diplomatic element. We need to talk talk talk talk to all our friends and even those who are who may not be very friendly with us but we need to keep talking with them engaging with them. Cyber warfare don't worry about it. We're good. India is apparently scary good at cyber warfare. So we don't discuss it but that's that's as far as I will tell you uh what I can say. Now when it comes to military readiness, what we need to do and ensure is that there are no shortages of ammunition, no shortages of anti-missile missiles, air defense missiles, no shortage, no shortages of drones, offensive drones, kamika drones, loitering drones, offensive missiles. No shortage of spare parts, no shortage of shells, of of bullets, of all the essentials. Everything has to be in available in a big stockpile in in with with with enough material for several months of of conflict if if required. As long as you have that we're going to be able to comfortably deal with Pakistan and of course the strategic oil reserves and all that. So basic things you to get right when you're dealing with a nuisance like Pakistan as long as there is and of course we have to be uh on the alert for any terrorist activity you know Pakistan may be tempted to do that because that's their nature they're a terrorist nation so but they may try and unleash some terrorist attack on some part of India inside India we have to be careful about that so if as long as we do these things we'll be fine Vishna says how to deal with the fake news peddled by our own Indian media. We're seeing a lot of that. There are certain Indian media outlets that want to take the cause the side of Pakistan. A certain media outlet uh said that three Indian planes are confirmed down, right? And then later those individuals, I won't use the word over here. Those individuals deleted the tweet and then they said that uh it was a mistake. They did not really apologize for it. And I usually don't use u harsh language on social media but I did use harsh language for that particular thing. So um yeah India has it's it's more than its share of antinationals and that's because they people like these are most likely on the payroll of outside forces. So maybe it's time the government cracks down on these antinationals and makes an example of some of them. Maybe it's time for that to happen. Uh Narendra Narendrai says Pakistan is making big claims like downing five jets and three Rafals and an unmanned drone and probably uh a fleet of Indian UFOs also. Yeah, this has been mentioned even by the western media like CNN and New York Times, probably by Pakistani journalists because I see Muslim authors of those posts. It's very difficult to believe them as Pakistan is known for lying and rarely speaking the truth. What do you think about this? Is it true? See, historically the western media has been very very deeply and closely aligned with Pakistani interests. It's a legacy of the old cold war. It's a legacy of the of of the time when the the US funded and financed Pakistani terrorism against India for decades and therefore their media was completely aligned with the Pakistani interest and they would always take the side of Pakistan no matter what happened with India. I remember when I was a kid in the late 1980s and early 1990s the Pakistanis had unleashed this wave of terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir. Hundreds of terror incidents every single day and the Kashmir Hindus were evicted out of Kashmir. Those who could not leave were killed, right? And when India would uh raise this at the United Nations or with the US, you know what the Americans would say to us? They would say that this is your law and order issue and you're not able to deal with simple law and order matters. That's what the Americans would repeatedly say to India and they knew what was happening because they were funding and financing the terrorism done by Pakistan. The Americans were 2008 Mumbai attacks who was the mastermind of the 2008 Mumbai attacks. It was an American citizen an American terrorist called David Coleman Headley. He is in a US prison. India has an extradition treaty with the Americans. The Americans refuse to hand over David Coleman Hedley to India, an American terrorist. What are the Americans hiding? They have a lot to hide because they are the ones who taught Pakistan how to use terror as a state as an instrument of state policy. They are the ones who funded and Pak financed Pakistani terrorism against India for decades. And because of this history, their entire media was aligned with Pakistan and it still is aligned to a very large extent with Pakistan. Even the British media is aligned with Pakistan. Even the French media, you know there is this one of the oldest French publications is called Lufigo. Let's let's Google it, shall we? Ligo. You know who owns this this French publication? Let's let's let's look at this. Let's look. This is important. Okay. Lu Figaro. Okay. Let's go to Okay. Uh, etc. Wikipedia. It was founded in 1826. Who owns Luffy? Who owns Luffy? Um, it is owned by the Dault Group. Who is the Dault group? What do they manufacture? The DALT group manufactures the Rafal fighter plane which they sell to India and they are the owners of Lufi Garo, France's oldest newspaper which is bitterly anti-India. Isn't this interesting my friends? Isn't this interesting? Lu Figero blatantly anti-India strongly pro Pakistan owned by Dasaw group which makes the Rafal very interesting very interesting um so that's the that's the history of the western media the very strongly pro Pakistan and maybe India should use some leverage over them it's high time we start doing these things it's high time we just stop being a nation of pushovers if you want to do business in India, you better be pro- India in all ways, in every single way. Anyhow, Migang Kasaris says, "What geopolitical strategies and media diplomacy tactics have enabled Pakistan to swiftly dominate transnational media narratives and why is India comparatively lagging in establishing its counter narratives despite its global economic and strategic influence?" Because the western India, western media is very strongly aligned with Pakistan for historical reasons. And the Pakistanis have played the game better than India. In the west, in the US especially, corruption is legalized. It's called lobbying. Okay? You can give money to politicians and media and all that if you do it in through a process called lobbying. So there are lobbying firms that you hire and that's how you launder the money and so on. And India can also do that. But India has never done that. India has never hired lobbying firms to to put forth India's narrative. The Pakistanis have been doing that for decades. We have more money than Pakistan but the Pakistanis do it. We don't do it. I don't know why we don't do it. We choose to do nothing. So that's why the Pakistani narrative typically is more influential than the Indian narrative. It is high time India starts using its geopolitical and economic leverage over these nations. If you want Amazon to do business in India, then maybe the Washington Post which is owned by the owner of Amazon should be more strongly pro- India and entirely anti-Pakistan. Maybe it's time that happens. So we need to start using leverage in this matter in this manner. We need to isolate Pakistan entirely economically, diplomatically, in all other ways in through sporting ties every way. We need to isolate Pakistan. If McDonald's wants to wants to operate in India, it needs to choose between India and Pakistan. You either operate in India and have access to the Indian market or if you love Pakistan market so much, you can operate there and you can no longer operate in India. You make a choice. Give the same choice to Coca-Cola, to Pepsi, to Domino's, to KFC, to every American and Western company that wants to operate in India. Give everybody the same choice. Choose India or Pakistan. You can't have both, right? Tell every cricket uh playing country to make a choice. If you want to play against Pakistan, if you want your players to play the Pakistan Premier League or whatever it is called, please feel free to do that. But you can't do that with you can't play with India again and so on. It's so easy to completely isolate Pakistan, the terrorist nation, if we want to. So don't you think my friends it's high time that happens? Please pressurize the Indian government to do the right thing. Maybe they're not aware of it. Maybe the there there's a lot of things that they have in their minds. So maybe we should put this in front of them and tell them that we have this option and we should use this option. Okay. Uh Chiagraasti says with the use of AI enabled drone swarms, Israeli Harop loitering munitions and real-time coordination with air defense systems like the S400 is India now entering a phase of integrated network ccentric warfare. What structural, doctrinal and logistical transformations must India undertake to institutionalize such a capability across the border armed force broader armed forces beyond episodic operations like Synindur? you know uh yeah you can see that there is more networks network ccentricness in India's warfare now so we have uh loitering drones which collect information in real time signals intelligence other visual intelligence and so on yeah uh we have medium altitude long endurance male drones or hail drones which which will loiter for days if required which will be doing this reconnaissance and u intelligence gathering then you'll have these killer drones which are also loiterers like the herob drone which will beworked with the bigger ones with the hail or male drones. Then you have the S400 which may or may not be talking to these systems. Then you may have fighter planes which areorked or may not beworked. Then you have AI enabled drone swarms which are other drones which do the things. So all of this if you can network it together it creates an entire in integrated synthesized view of the battle space that no one person or one fighter plane can see you know and you can integrate this in real time through satellites and whatn not but for that all your systems need to be able to talk to each other but if you have an S400 which can't talk to a Rafal then it kind of creates gaps so what so we are kind of going in that direction clearly network ccentric warfare integrated networkcentric warfare. But for that to happen properly, we need to manufacture all our own equipment. So that's what needs to happen eventually. We we will go get there eventually. Arana says, "Does Pakistan really want a small scale war with India? Why is the US and West not imposing sanctions on Pakistan for harboring terrorism on soil? The West doesn't want to talk about Pakistani terrorism anymore. No, no, no. We will not we we we want to wash our hands off Pakistan. Wash off. Let them go to China. That's what the West is doing right now. That's what Donald Trump is actively doing. He has washed his hands of Pakistan. He's okay with Pakistan falling into the Chinese embrace. And the West doesn't want to talk about Pakistani terrorism. Donald Trump wants to say that India and Pakistan has have been fighting for 1,500 years apparently. So why is the west so reluctant to talk about Pakistan terrorism and all that? Because the west funded and financed Pakistani terrorism for decades against India, the US. So that's why it's a very inconvenient part of history for the US and they want India on their side right now. So I think so that's why they they're keeping their hands off the matter and Pakistan now is kind of on its own unless China comes to the rescue. Hersha says could Turkeykey's consistent support for Pakistan a rogue nation teetering on the edge of failure be driven by deeper strategic ambitions such as gaining access to nuclear technology that might eventually shift the balance of power to central Europe in central Europe. Could such a move serve Turkeykey's broader geopolitical interests in Erdogan's aspiration of reviving the Ottoman Empire or something like that a neo-toman empire look there are multiple reasons why Turkey and Pakistan have this synergy or whatever it is the Turk the first of all the Pakistanis how do they define Pakistan as a nation or how do they define being a Pakistani what is what does it mean to be a Pakistani according to Pakistan being a Pakistani means be means means not being Indian. They define themselves by what they are not. Look 80 years ago they were all Indians right their ancestors were Indians for tens of thousands of years but today they have chosen not to be Indians so they they reject being Indians and that's why they are looking for new new sources of ancestry or whatever. So for some for for many years they they tried to they pretended to be Arabs the Pakistanis but the Arabs don't like them. So the Arabs now say get lost you are not Arabs you're Hindus for Arabs Hindus means a geographical region India. So then now the Pakistanis are trying to become Turks. So our ancestors were Turks. I think Immran Khan even said that once as the prime minister of Pakistan that the Turks ruled India for a thousand years and that's that's our ancestors. They're not even Turks actually you know even the Turks themselves are Greeks. So but anyhow there's this the Pakistan Pakistanis need some kind of fake ancestry so they look towards Turkey for that and of course there's the religious connection the Sunni Islam thing in both nations. So and and obviously Turkey would not mind uh tapping into a little bit of the nuclear technology that Pakistan has. They know that Pakistan is a mercenary nation. They are available at the right price. So makes sense for this these two nations to work together and Turkey it's history you know Turkey doesn't have a history. Turkey doesn't have a history. Turkey has a criminal record. So very similar nations, you know. So that's why it's it's not it's not surprising to see Turkeykey's consistent support for Pakistan. Adi says if Aim Moner again makes a stupid move and attacks India in response to whatever happened. We clearly said it's a non-escalatory action and attack attacked only the terrorist camps in Pakistan. So if Aim Mon does something stupid, will that be the perfect opportunity to take back some land of PK? Actually yes pulse pause war if push comes to shove we pulse we pulse 20 30 km forwards if required 50 km maximum 72 hours and then unilateral pause end that's it we defeated you p great choice take muzafarabad take whatever it may happen in the next couple of weeks or maybe the next 3 4 days if the Pakistanisu are stupid so some part of PK may come back to India very very rapidly. Be prepared for that. It may happen. Vun Kumar says, "How far is this going to escalate? It doesn't look like this has ended yet. It's just phase one. What would or should be India's end goal here?" It's ongoing. I I came into this room 2 hours ago. I saw on TV the Pakistanis were trying to target Jammu. They were trying to strike at Jammu with missiles and drones. So, it's ongoing. They are choosing to attempt escalation. They have essentially no choice because if they don't do it then the Pakistan army loses all legitimacy and credibility in the eyes of its own people. And that is do or die for aim. So we are in a state of war with Pakistan. Now it may not be a war that's been declared by the two nations but we are at war with Pakistan. And this may last two days, it may last two weeks. The longer it lasts, the more dangerous it gets for Pakistan and the closer Pakistan gets to disintegrating. Just two weeks Pakistan can disintegrate if it continues like this. And India's end goal should be to impose a comprehensive military and political defeat on Pakistan and ensure that Pakistan terrorism never raises its head, snake head again. That's the end goal. Uh Adar Narayan Ra says as an ordinary citizen of parat what's our duty now in this situation that we are at war of Pakistan how can we help or contribute to our country in the situation number one don't panic number two you must support your nation unconditionally that's all nothing else is required of ordinary citizens absolutely nothing else you don't have to contribute money to the nation you are paying taxes that's The government has more than enough money. There is no shortage of anything in India. The armed forces have enough people. They have everything they need. The only thing you need to do as citizens is to give your unconditional support to the country. That's it. No questions asked. You always support your country no matter what happens. And don't uh amplify rumors on social media and don't indulge in any kind of negativity. Unconditional support your country. That's all that's required. All right, I'm out of questions. Let me take questions from the live chat for about 5 minutes. Okay, do we have questions? Um, Pawan says Pakistan has lost more than three fighter planes and India has now launched 100 missiles on Pakistan. Now, is this happening in real time? I am I am not watching TV right now, so I have no idea. Is this happening right now? Um, I don't know. Let's see. I'll I'll reassess once this live stream is over, but okay. It's It's pretty likely that this has happened. Any possibility of World War II? Says Ari, no. No possibility of World War II unless China wants to get involved. Even in that case, it would not be World War II. Shashad Saha says, "Is it better to deescalate now or is it better to flatten Pakistan now? As they have started to fight back now, we had we not given a proper disproportionate response. Uh if that if they're trying to fight back now, we can fight back twice as hard. Our response should be proportional slightly harder than the Pakistani response and uh the objective is to tell them that if you continue this you're going to end up in a very bad state. Uh deescalate. No we will not deescalate. We have had enough of being the deescalator. We have had enough of deescalating. We have done decades of that. It is time that the Pakistanis deescalate and we will make them de deescalate by speaking to them in the only language they understand. Okay. What next? Vidan says World War II has been initiated apparently. Okay. I am not aware of what's happened in the past two hours. I'll go and check once I'm done with this. Um Rajigan says if so will the Pakistanis use the F-16 for attacks and cross into Indian airspace and how will the US react? The US apparently has kill switches which they can ensure which they can use to ensure the Pakistanis don't use the F-16 against India. The reason the Pakistanis have the F-16 is because the Americans told them that we are selling it to you so that you can fight terrorism. But obviously everyone the whole universe including extraterrestrials they know that this is a lie. The only reason the Pakistanis have the F-16 is to use against India. So look if the Pakistanis use the F-16 we need to destroy them all. That's the simplest thing I can say and we have the capability to do that. If they use it, we destroy it. End of story. And if they use it, we destroy the air bases too. Try it. Come on. Swami says war is live. All right. I I said two hours ago we are in a state of war. Uh K4 whatever says what will happen on the Bangladesh and Sri Lanka border? Nothing. Nothing. Nothing. It's all right. Nothing will happen there. Um okay they have attacked the Jammu airport just now uh right after the night after Sundur 2.0. Okay so this is realtime news that I that you all are giving me and I appreciate that. So once this is done we're going to I'm going to take a look at what's happening. Pakistani J7 was shot down the Pakist the cap the pilot was captured alive. All right. Indian army is in Pakistan. All right. It looks like we have a lot of breaking news happening. So I think I'll end the live stream right now. Um, Subraat says, "Watched India utilize more than 50 drones of Pakistan in Udampur. I am surprised I were able to reach reach Udampur. What's my take on this?" Uh, I don't know what to say. I have to see what happened and we'll see. Okay. So, uh, Misty 88 says, "Will we have the regular Saturday night ask a visit session?" Yes. Yes, we're going to have that. So, we will continue this this conversation on Saturday. Let me end today's live stream over here. Thank you so much for your questions, viewership, and everything. And let's do this, let's continue this on Saturday. Until then, take care and thank you very very much for questions. Stay safe and keep supporting your nation unconditionally. Thank you, Jind. I'll see you soon.