Heat. Heat. [Music] Heat. Heat. Good evening, good day everybody and welcome back to the Ask Ajit show. This is once again an emergency session, emergency episode of the show because we are at war. We are at war with Pakistan and a lot is happening. So in yesterday's live stream, I had said that I will do the next live stream on Saturday as scheduled. But it clearly um it's important that we do it today because so much is happening and while we were doing the live stream yesterday, there was a whole lot of action happening. The Pakistan is trying to take out Indian targets and so on. So let us discuss more of the situation and before we do that I'm going to see who all is on the live chat. I can see Dongar Singh Johan ICBMs Oscar Maris Dea Deayan Basu Vamshi Ready MP Abid Nav Aurora V N Mali Malcani Adjut Hunter Canvi Yam P Billy Maguire Bully Maguire Geopolitical Dubai Suna Spandan Kandelwal Rahul Sharma and lots and lots of other people. So, let's go and I'm going to take questions from the live chat today. How about that? U Oscar Madison from Texas. So, I'm going to take questions from the live chat. I've not had the time to sit down and go through all the questions in the comments and select the best questions. I've not had the time to do that. So, the questions that you've asked the comments, I will uh look at them tomorrow in tomorrow's uh live stream. But uh today we're going to do it entirely from the live chat. So, let's take questions from the live chat. Uh let's see what questions do we have. Wamshi Reddi from Twitter says no Karachi attack happened then. Well, we'll wait and watch. Uh apparently no Karachi attack has happened. Yesterday there were all kinds of rumors on social media. Um that apparently we have taken out the port of Karachi and INS Vikrant is in actions is in action. I'm not sure how these rumors end up on social media. I have nothing against rumors in in during wartime even rumors can be a weapon that we can use against the adversary which is fine. Uh but as far as uh we see uh it it doesn't look like Karachi port has been taken out. Uh at least we haven't made any such claims. We as in the government of India right? So today there was a press conference by the government of India couple of hours ago and we got some more details out of it. And uh a lot has happened in the last 48 hours, right? U it all started with uh it all it all it all started with uh the terrorist attack on uh civilians on tourists in Pahelgam. And we India we gave Pakistan about two weeks to bring the uh terrorists to justice and to shut down its terror factory and Pakistan took no action. And they actually made claims that somehow it had India was responsible for this in in some strange perverted way the the way the only the Pakistani mind can work. So we waited we gave them time to uh deal with the situation to to bring the terrorists to justice. They did nothing. And then a couple of days ago we launched uh pinpoint strikes on Pakistani terror infrastructure. And this time we recorded everything on video. We filmed everything. We sent loitering drones that went there and filmed everything all the strikes and we presented the evidence to the world in respon. So so we took out their terrorist infrastructure, their terrorist machinery. We took that out. In response, they started shelling civilians and they they tried targeting Indian cities. Um the night of the 7th, was it the night of the 7th of May? They tried targeting 15 Indian cities with missiles and drones. And every single missile and drone was intercepted. Not a single hit on an Indian target, whether it was a civilian target or military target. So then they started shelling uh civilians in um on the Indian side of the border of of the LOC u rajori punch Uri and Indian civilians are suffering as a consequence they're dying when you're doing shelling you can't take that out with anti-aircraft weapons right so they've been doing that and we have suffered casualties right so this is another provocation by Pakistan this is nothing short of terrorism if you are shelling civilians and civilians are dying and civilian property is being destroyed and damaged that is terrorism. Terrorism means what's the definition of terrorism? It means you're targeting civilians. So the Pakistanis are right now as we speak indulging in more terrorism. And then we responded again by taking out Pakistani military installations this time in broad daylight using uh various kinds of uh weapons uh mostly u kami khazar drones what's called kami khazar drones the harop drones or whatnot and we did this in broad daylight and then the Pakistanis last night I think they tried attacking about more than 20 Indian cities 20 or 25 Indian targets all the way from lei in the north to Gujarat the sir creek and buja region in the south. Imagine trying to target a city like Lei, a beautiful, calm, peaceful city full of innocent people. I mean, it's just crazy. And today we did did a press conference in which we uh uh our government did the press conference in which we they put all of this out. This is what happened overnight. This is what the Pakistanis have been trying. And yesterday I said that we are a nation at war. I said that and I stand by what I said. We are a nation at war. Uh the Pakistanis are trying their best to to uh hit Indian targets. They want to hit Indian civilians. They're trying to hit Indian cities. They're trying to hit hit civilian airports. They're also trying to hit some military targets. But their major target target the category of target is civilian targets. standard Pakistani terrorist mindset. Uh so that is what's happening right now as we speak. So we are in a state of in a state of war. We are in a state of war. We are at war with Pakistan. Now today's press conference by the government of India was very calm and it was kind of deescalatory like we don't want any more of this. If Pakistan keeps trying to escalate we will certainly respond but if they stop then you can consider the case to be closed. That's the kind of messaging we gave right. So now the ball is in Pakistan's court. Essentially we are giving them an offramp. The question is will Pakistan take this opportunity to end the matter. The answer is no. They won't. And that's the problem which is why I reiterate that we are at war with Pakistan. There's also news, my friends. There's also news that that came out and then it was that was quietened down. There's news that at least three Pakistani fighter planes were taken out, right? That news came out the past 48 hours. At least three Pakistani fighter planes. But has the government of India said anything? I mean, here's this question by MP. Is it true that F-16 was not actually shot down? Well, what actually happened? H did we take out fighter planes? F F-16s, JF17s, one heard that at least three were taken out and then the news went quiet. What happened? See, it's like this. Please understand the Pakistani psychology, the Pakistani mindset. During the Cargill war, they sent their soldiers disguised as tribals to fight India. And when these soldiers were killed, naturally they'll kill if they'll be killed if they fight India. When the soldiers were killed, the Pakistani military refused to reclaim their bodies saying that these are not our soldiers. Shameless people, shameful behavior. These are your soldiers who have died fighting for for your cause and you are not even willing to reclaim the bodies and give them a decent uh proper honorable funeral. So that's what Pakistan does. If they lose personnel, they disown them. Why am I saying all this? Hypothetically, Pakistan uh loses two or three fighter planes. Let's say they lose three fighter planes and and hypothetically India captures one fighter pilot alive. Hypothetically, consider the scenario. So if we claim that we have shot down three fighter planes and we show the evidence then Pakistan has nothing nowhere to hide, right? But if we don't claim that we have taken out x number of fighter planes then Pakistan will try and hide it that we lost anything. So then what we can do in this completely fictitious scenario in this fictitious scenario what we can do now is that we can quietly take our time and interrogate that fire fighter pilot as long as we need and get all the information out of him or them. Okay, we don't claim that we have shot down fighter planes. We don't we don't want that glory. We want the intel. How is that scenario? Does it sound good to you? I'm I'm just painting a completely fictitious hypothetical picture. So, uh let's keep it at that, shall we? Okay. All right. So, now Dongar Singh Johan raises a pretty relevant point. What is wrong with Turkey? Turkey. So the Turkish uh what's his name? Erdogan he's the prime what president of Turkey. Yes the president of Turkey Erdogan has uh put out a tweet in his Turkey language in which he has spoken about the war between Hindustan and Pakistan right and he has said that it's unfortunate and we need to what deescalate is the word going out on social media. He says we need to deescalate h both sides need to deescalate and he says that the people of Turkey stand with the brotherly nation of Pakistan but they don't stand with India and in today's press conference g given by the government of India it emerged that the Pakistanis launched between 400 to 500 drones at Indian targets last night and most of these apparently were Turkish drones. Okay. So the Turks have been u supplying the Pakistanis with drones with weapons which the Pakistanis are trying to use to to bleed India. They they're failing thus far. Uh but that's the situation. So what's wrong with Turkey? Everything is wrong with Turkey. Like I've said in the past, Turkey doesn't have a history. Turkey has a criminal record. It's a it's it's exactly the same kind of country that Pakistan is. Okay? Just the color of skin is different. The Turks are converted Greeks and the Pakistanis are converted Indians. But you see the similarity there. So they're going to stand with Pakistan and they obviously hope to get something out of this. Hopefully some nuclear technology or something or the other. And um obviously the the the hatred for the for for the non-believer, the disbeliever, the the infidel is there. So that's what's wrong with Turkey and this is to be expected. So Pakistan got a boost shot in the arm, right? Turkey, the president of Turkey came out in public and gave a statement in favor of Pakistan, in support of Pakistan and indirectly uh uh you know critical of India. So nothing surprising about this. Nothing surprising about it. Okay, let's see more questions. Uh Kumar Patel says, "Do we have the best air defense grid? How did we protect uh subcontinent-sized nation? How is it compared to the US, China, Israel defense system?" Oh, there's no comparison. It's very different. Every nation is different. Every geography is different. Every challenge, every defensive challenge is different. Do we have the best air defense grid? I wouldn't say we have the best defense grid air defense grid but we we clearly have a super competent air defense grid everything the Pakistan is lobbed at us from the sky whether it's missiles or rockets or drones everything has been taken out and the Indian media is reporting we have the S400 and the S400 took everything out these people have no idea what they're talking about the S400 doesn't exist to take out drones The S400 is therefore a very specific set of threats and that's the kind of threats it neutralizes. It's not it's it's its purpose is not to neutralize drones and and and rockets and shells. The purpose of the S400 is to take out very big threats like fighter planes. Okay. It has a radius of coverage of 400 kilometers and uh so it essentially can cover most of Pakistan because Pakistan would you like to see the geography of Pakistan. Let's see how wide the nation is, how much strategic depth the nation has. So here's the map of Pakistan. Let's say you have an S400 sitting somewhere here. So let's uh see how wide the nation is from end to end about 500 kilometers. So you're safe from the Sound and only if you're if you're far in the west of Pakistan near near either Afghanistan or near the Iran border, right? You I think you're safest if you're a Pakistani if you're sitting in Baljasthan because then you have a significant distance from any potential S400 uh system. Um so the S400 you can keep it even a 100 kilometers inside Indian territory and you can still take out any Pakistani threat uh a fighter plane kind of threat or potentially ballistic missile threat. So the S400 its purpose is to take out fighter planes and short to medium range ballistic missiles and also potentially cruise missiles. Its purpose is not to take out drones. For those drones, we have other air defense systems which have worked brilliantly. So clearly India has really surprised the world. Really surprised the world that not a single Pakistani uh rocket or missile or drone was to was able to hit any substantial target in India. And they have God knows they've tried they've lobbed hundreds of these weapons at us. So we have multiple layers of air defense. The S400 is the biggest one. We also have the Akash missile which apparently has been the superstar. Not the S400. I'm not saying the S400 isn't great. It's great. It's brilliant. But the real superstar in the action of the last 14 hours has been the Akash SAM surfaceto-air missile and other systems as well. So we have superb air defense grid. Clearly, it's it's very obvious now. It's very clear. The past 48 hours has proven that. Uh but but please understand there's a lot more to come. We are at war and this is going to continue. Um how do we how did we protect the subcontinent size nation? Look, the Pakistanis haven't tried hitting targets deeper within India. Okay. Thus far um so thus far we are uh defending the border states essentially which is uh Ladak, Jammu and Kashmir uh Punjab, Rajasthan and Gujarat. That's mainly the states we are defending and they've tried hitting targets all across these states. How do we compare it with the US, China? Look, we can't compare. Every nation is different so there's no point comparing. Um look for example the Israelis have the Iron Dome system which is almost like a point defense system. It's a very small tiny country compared to India. So they can really saturate the skies with Iron Dome missiles and take out uh incoming bogeies essentially. So it's a very different set of scenarios. Now Amisha says what's your take on JD Vance's statement? JD Vance said that the IndiaPakistan conflict is none of the US's business. it has nothing to do with us. We have no business talking about it. Essentially, that's what he said. I'm paraphrasing. I don't know what exact words he used, but he said that it's none of the US's business and America needs to stay out of it. The vice president of the United States said that. So, what what should we infer from that? What does it mean? It's obviously a signal. It's not just uh an answer giving given to a journalist who asked a question. It's also a it's it's also also a diplomatic signal. It's also a policy statement. It's also a message to India as well as Pakistan as well as Russia as well as China and whoever else is uh interested in whatever way. It's a message. So how do we interpret what JD Vance said? What does it mean that this this conflict this war is none of America's business? Which is surprising considering the history the US has had with Pakistan. The US was Pakistan's big daddy in the 20th century. The US was Pakistan's main funer and financer. They are the ones who taught Pakistan how to use terror as uh as policy as state policy. It started with the mujahedin in Afghanistan but it also spilled out into into Punjab and then into Kashmir in the 80s and 90s and then the primary the primary target for Pakistani terror was India all funded and financed by the US during the war of sorry war on terror of George W. Bush uh Pakistan was the lynchpin of that. Uh it was the staging base for whatever was was happening in Afghanistan and so on. So the US has been the big daddy for decades. Pakistan was their wasal for decades. Then for a decade or so Pakistan became China's vas was vasal and then 2022 onwards for a brief couple of years Pakistan was a US wasal again. Now what JD Vance has said indicates that the US has washed its hands of Pakistan. It's essentially a statement that means that India needs to handle Pakistan whichever way it wants to. Just ensure that this matter doesn't spill out and become a bigger problem. Deal with Pakistan whichever way you want. That's the message. And why would the US give such a message to India? It's because the US is seriously worried about China. And if they want to contain China, which they're trying to do, well, in the Eurasia region, the only nation that is large enough to be a significant bulvar against China and an alternative to China is India. So they need India on their side when it comes to containing China. Now, we don't want to be used as anyone's pawn. Obviously, we are too big a nation, too old of a civilization to be a pawn on someone's chessboard. But today, China is three and a half times more powerful than us. And China is not exactly a friendly nation. As I think every Indian knows, China is a threat. And right now they are three and a half times more powerful than India. So it makes sense to have some kind of understanding with the US, right? And that's why it makes sense for us to be on the side of the US in the matter that concerns China while being completely independent and sovereign and autonomous in other matters. So when it comes to China, yes, US and India, we're going to work together on that. You want to do it while using the quad quad route or other route, Indo-acific, whatever, let's do it. We'll work together on that. But if you want us to oppose Russia, sorry. Russia, India, that's a whole different matter. You guys stay out of it. China, we're going to help you. We're going to be with you. Let's work together on China. So, it's it's issue based cooperation, but it is long-term cooperation. So, India and the US are on the same page when it comes to China. And uh the US is trying to make good with Russia's also. They tried at least for a while. the trial uh but they will not be able to make India uh pull away from Russia or or abandon its you know historic uh very positive relationship with Russia. That's not going to happen. So that's the deal. So when it comes to Pakistan, the US is perfectly willing to sacrifice Pakistan if it means that India will be on the US's side when it comes to the China matter. So it looks like a deal has been struck. the art of the deal. Deal with Pakistan. Take your time. Do whatever you want. But you are going to be with us when it comes to China. So what does it mean in the context of today's conflict? This is a great question by Amisha. It means most likely this is going to go into in a certain direction. U it means that this conflict is not over. See the Pakistanis have done an incredibly stupid thing. I said this two weeks ago that the pahelgam pahelam attack is going to go around in history as an inflection point in Pakistan's history and the day they did the attack was the day the clock started ticking backwards for them. Countdown began for them. And I said the countdown could is the clock is ticking down to zero. It may last 10 years or 5 years or 3 years or 6 months or 3 months. Now seeing the way the situation is evolving the clock may countdown to zero in 14 days possible. So as long as we manage this properly, properly carefully and we ensure the situation doesn't spill out beyond the Indian subcontinent, the Americans are okay with the disintegration of Pakistan. That's what it means. All right, that's what it means. Right, let us take some other qu questions. Oh yeah, I had one question that I taken from the comments. I I'll answer that today and the u the others I'll take it from the live chat. So which question did I have? I had this question by one of my older my old viewers longtime viewers Chuching and the question is are the far east states of India in danger from Pakist from China and Bangladesh in the current scenario and this is a great question you see India is a vast country and India's far east is thousands of kilometers away from Pakistan but you know it's in a whole different neighborhood India's far east is in Southeast Asia let's take a look at the map so when we talk about the Indian Far East, we are referring to what everyone calls the northeast. You see, if you were to measure the distance from Pakistan roughly to India's far east, it's almost 2,000 km. If you were to talk about Nagaland and the border with Pakistan, that's over 2,000 km. So that's really far away. So India's far east is actually geographically situated in Southeast Asia. It's the gateway to Southeast Asia for us. And it's a very different part of the country compared to the western part of the country. And this is an excellent question. Are these states you know Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizora, Megallaya, Tripura and so on even Sikkim let's say uh and even Bhutan let's consider are these states in any kind of danger from China and Bangladesh in the current scenario? Uh yes, we will have to be very careful. We will have to assume that there are threats and let me tell you why. See, right now, China is kind of thus far staying out of this conflict. They have made statements uh criticizing India in regretting India's actions with Pakistan, but uh they're not keeping a very very very hawkishly close eye on what's happening. Uh Mr. Xiinping is in Moscow right now. He's he's attending the victory day parade. I suppose it must be over by now. Uh but you know if it was a very precarious situation, Mr. Xiinping would not be in Moscow. He would he would be in Beijing anyhow. So what is the threat that the far east of India can face? You may remember a few weeks ago the Pakist I don't know who it was a high-ranking Pakistani official whether it's the foreign minister or the defense minister or whatever it is I think it was some kind of lady or something that that high-ranking official Pakistani official visited Bangladesh and right now we are seeing a lot of synergy between Pakistan and Bangladesh they are essentially kind of on the same page they are back to the days of East Pakistan West Pakistan Right? They both have governments and regimes that see India as the enemy and there is a shared hatred for India right now among the people who rule east and west Pakistan and Pakistan right now is in is kind of caught between a rock and a hard place. India has hit them hard and the Pakistani military needs to show something to its people that you know we were able to hit India back otherwise they lose all legitimacy in the eyes of their people and if they lose legitimacy it's going to be regime change it's going to be disintegration of Pakistan there's going to be riots on the streets and they'll lose control so they need to quickly do something the Pakistani military that reassures that people their people that look we hit back at India now they are trying to lob hundreds hundreds of missiles and drones in India and everything is being shot down. So what do they do? Well, what they can do is to resort to what they do best which is terrorism. So I can assure you India cities are on high alert. It may not be visible but the governance machinery is going to be and police machinery and whatever other machinery we have will be on high alert because it's well known that there are you know when India revoked the visas of all Pakistanis after the balam attack we discovered tens of thousands of Pakistanis who have been living in India for decades so they have plenty of people who have infiltrated India I'm sure that they we have not been able to catch all of them and then there are Rohingyas across India who have been settled in Jammu and where god knows what places and then there are there are millions of Bangladeshes in India in illegal infiltrators in 2014 there were there were 50 billion according to the government so imagine the threat we are facing from within so these elements these enemies we have within who are all across the country in every city they're visible they're in your face That's a huge failure on the part of the government of India. But look, this is what this is today's situation. So these elements can be activated and leveraged to conduct potential terror operations against India clearly right now. Do we have the presence of such elements in India's far east? Yes, we have Bangladeshes and Rohingyas in all the far eastern states. In Manipur, you have Bangladesh and Rohingyas who have been allowed to settle by the government. Why? I don't know why. In Nagaland, I promise you these these Bangladeshes are a big problem today. They are all over all over the place. I don't understand how they have been allowed to settle. I just don't get it. And as long as these elements are present on Indian territory, it's going to be a huge problem. Half of Manipur is overrun by foreign cookies. They have killed more Manipuris than the Pakistanis recently killed tourists. But they don't matter. Manipuris don't matter. The far east of India doesn't matter apparently. So you know this is a huge threat. These cookie these chin cookies they have no allegiance to India. These Rohingyas they have no allegiance to India. These Bangladeshies they have no allegiance to India. These Pakistanis they have no love or allegiance to India. They all hate India. They can be leveraged by foreign powers whether it is Bangladesh or China or whoever. So yeah we we are in danger. We are in danger. As long as you have foreigners squatting on Indian territory, we are in danger. and the government once it once we deal with Pakistan or in parallel while dealing with Pakistan we need to start evicting foreigners out of India I don't care if they're not willing to go throw them out if Bangladesh is not willing to accept them then I'm sure there are options the geography of the Indian subcontinent including our strategic backyard is pretty large is all I will say so it's high time the government does something about this because yes uh Chiching is asking a great question the I think all states of India are in some kind of danger from the mainly from the enemies within who can be easily controlled by the enemies without Yes. So yes, the the security agencies need to be on high alert everywhere in in all the states that uh have borders with other countries like like Bangladesh or whether it is Southeast Asia, Burma which is in undergoing civil war or whatever else. Okay, let's take some more questions from Okay, good question. Tjis says what's your reply to some people who are asking for for some Indian people who are clamoring for deescalation and how should Indians prepare themselves for upcoming war situations. Um yeah there are Indians who are who have the past 48 hours for the past 48 hours been clamoring for deescalation on social media on X on Twitter and so on. You know an I for an I will make the world blind and we should deescalate. There are people on both sides who are suffering and so on and so forth. Deescalation. I would like to take those people know I would like to invite those people. I invite those people to go to the border with with Pakistan either at the international border or at PK. Go to Punch, go to Rajori, go to Uri and and spend 48 hours there. Yes. And then ask India for deescalation. When you're sitting there, you'll find that there's incoming fire towards you, missiles, shells, bullets flying all over the place. So, are you going to ask Mr. Modi for deescalation or are you going to ask the Pakistanis for deescalation? We are not the aggressors. We did not start this. India did not start this. We are at the receiving end of terrorism and fire from the Pakistanis. It is for Pakistan to deescalate. It is not for India to deescalate. Okay. Yes. Sure. The this fighting is going to cause pain on both sides. True. It's going to cause pain on the Pakistani side if civilians get hit inadvertently. We don't target civilians but if civilians get civilians get hit is going to cause pain and suffering on that side. On our side we have been having pain and suffering for decades. Now the qu see the question is who is causing this pain and suffering? Who is causing it? Is it war that's causing it or is it evil people who are causing it? War happens because of the actions of evil people, right? And if you're at the receiving end, if you're a victim of the of those actions, then you have a choice. You either sit and let it happen and you you absorb the pain and suffering or you say enough and I'm going to give the pain and suffering back to the evil people. I think the people the ones who are responsible for all the pain and suffering are Pakistan. And as long as Pakistan keeps existing in the current shape and form, as long as the ISI military terrorist entity, combined entity keeps existing, pain and suffering is going to be permanent as long as this keeps existing. So we have to take this entity out. We have to liberate the world and the people of Pakistan and the people of the Indian subcontinent from the burden from this b from the burden of this evil entity. So that's what I would say to the people, the Indian people who are asking for deescalation. Please go to the line of control, go sit there, go, go, go live there for a couple of days. Then you will know who actually needs to deescalate, right? And if they don't deescalate, we're going to make them deescalate this time. We're going to make them deescalate. This war is not over. We are we are giving Pakistan the option and you know you have an offramp like the west likes to say stop whatever you're doing and we're going to end this year but Pakistan won't end this year okay so this war is going to go to to its conclusion territory will change lines on the map is going to change now the question is how should Indians prepare themselves for the upcoming war situations I would say look there's nothing much you have to just take basic precautions. Um the main thing is you have to unconditionally support your country. Um and if you are on social media, if you're a Twitter warrior or whatever, go ahead and and have some fun on social media. Um and yeah, that's what look the government of India, the armed forces are more than capable of taking care of the country. There's nothing that individual Indians need to do. Uh we pay our taxes. the government of India has more than enough funds and everything it needs. Okay. Um we have adequate numbers of soldiers and all that. So don't worry. The only thing is you take adequate precautions. Don't uh don't allow media rumors to mislead you. There are many Indian media outlets that are taking the side of Pakistan, right? And so on. So support your country unconditionally. Your country is right. We are not a terrorist nation. We have been on the receiving end of terror for decades. For decades and yeah, we're going to we're going to dismantle Pakistan this time. Enough is enough. Duresh Palanchol says on the 21st of April, Apple announced its production being moved from China to India. Is this a war between India and Pakistan a Chinese proxy against the next globe global next economic production house? Look clearly this if this war does benefit China. If this war has the effect of making India look like an unstable country, a country that is not a good or sound investment destination, then it's a win for China. It's a big win for China, right? So it's pretty clear that this is the Chinese must be happy right now. So what India needs to do is we need to ensure that this situation should not last more than 14 days and then the next next 14 days um yeah whatever needs to happen needs to happen. But you are right you know these things are all all interconnected. China sitting far away, Beijing is far away. The border with Tibet is right at our doorstep. Um, and what's happening in visa v Apple in China and India, it's all interconnected with this current war with Pakistan. T says no other option, no option other than full-blown war, says Pakistan's defense minister. Well, if you want it, you can have it. You're going to have it. Harsha says, if we advance forward, how do we secure the territory permanently without losing it? Does boots on the ground change the scenario completely? Boots on the ground changes the scenario completely. Uh how do we secure the territory permanently without losing it? Leave it to the armed forces. They know how to do it. We don't need to worry about it. The armed forces, it's their job to do this. They're professionals. They know how to do it. No, we don't need to worry about that. Um, uh, Sorov Sor says, "Do we get a chance to see the bramos in action?" The Brahos may have been in action or maybe not. We don't know. Look, this is not a live cricket match that we're going to see it ball by ball. A whole lot of stuff is going to happen that we may not know for years. The bramos may be in action, but we may not get to see it. So we can see this the test firings. Okay. Mr. 88 says the Pakistan defense minister is quoted as saying we didn't intercept Indian drones as it would have given away our defense positions. What I what I have my honest thoughts and opinions on this master stroke strategy. So listen, I'm sitting in in a place and the drone is coming at me, right? the suicide drone and I have an interceptor. I have a system that can, let's say, take out drones and it's coming really fast. I can't really escape before it hits. So, what should I do? If I use the intercepting uh technology, it'll give away the data and the locations and defense positions to the adversary. So, I'll not use it. I'll die. Is it is it is that how it works? In Lahore, the air defense system was taken out by Indian drones, kamikazi drones. So was it a sound decision to not give away the defense positions when the defense positions were already known to India? This is called cope. This is called coping. you know, making some kind of excuse to make it sound like u you're actually winning when you're when you're actually losing. So, yeah, it's u it's a joke. It's a nice joke. Uh Kumar says, "The Turkish drones failed. How will it will it affect the Turkish drone market?" The world look wherever there is a conflict the world looks with a lot of interest not the lay people of the world but people who are in the defense industry people who are um geopolitically aligned like you know government officials military officials u arms manufacturers potential arms customers they all look at the action that's happening with a great deal of interest let's say I am a potential consumer. Let's say I'm a potential buyer of Turkish drones, then I would like to very much observe what happens when Turkish drones are used in actual combat. You can use Turkish drones in field trials and all that. That's fine. You know, in cricket what they say there's a world of difference between net practice and actual match practice. You can be in great form as a batsman in the nets, middling every ball and hitting everything perfectly, but that doesn't mean you're going to do well in in in live action. The per the performance in the live action is what matters more than your net performance. Similarly, the performance of drones during field trials and all is okay, but how they perform in real wartime combat scenarios is what really matters. That's where uh the true uh value can be seen. The value or lack of it can be seen. So the Turkish drones were lobbed at us all last night. 400 or 500 Turkish drones were lobbed at us and every single one of them was taken out um through different means. Some of those means were non-kinetic means apparently. Yeah. So the Turkish drones uh they failed. they failed very much. If you are a sensible buyer and you want a system that actually performs in combat, I would suggest you stay away from Turkish drones. Byakar or whatever it's called, Kizilma. Now, Kizilma is different. But yeah. Yeah. So, the Turkish drones have failed or whichever drones that the Pakistanis had. So, it's a blow to the reputation of the Turkish uh drone industry. Nikunju Sharma says, "Please tell how the Indian Navy is going to take action. How will our aircraft carrier be useful in the battle?" Uh, I don't know. I would actually prefer not to have the aircraft carrier participate in the battle. It can be at sea and defend the coastline of India, but I don't think it should be used in offensive in an offensive manner. I think if you want to have the Navy participate in the war, then you can use submarine launched u weapons or weapons that are launched from standoff distances from um destroyers or various other kinds of warships. The weapon you want to use is typically a cruise missile. And we have one of the cruise missiles which is called the Brahmos, right? And it's a pretty good cruise missile, believe you me. So uh I would want to have that sort of uh involvement of the navy destroyers or submarines launching cruise missiles at wherever uh the targets are whether it's Karachi or whatever it is that's how it should go. Um they just says seems like Modi G will be the best PM even surpassing the fame of Indra Gandhi. We have to wait and watch. I think the next two weeks are going to we'll decide how how it goes, right? Okay. Um, Mr. 88 says ex government affairs account is openly lecturing us on censorship and free speech nonsense for banning 8,000 8,000 X accounts. Let them do it. Let them do it. Doesn't matter. Doesn't matter. They do. They they'll do that. They'll always, you know, try and uh portray themselves as having the high moral ground. We believe in free speech. You believe in free speech. Yeah. During Biden's regime, how many Americans were blocked from Twitter? Permanently banned from Twitter. H what happened to your free speech? Then Donald Trump was banned from Twitter and these clowns want to lecture us when we do something for the sake of national security. These people are two-faced hypocrites. So what's appropriate for us to do? It's appropriate for us to laugh at them. Arian Rocking Gaming says Karachi Port official ex account posted that the port has been damaged. Later said that nothing has happened and their account was banned. Banned? It seems suspicious. Are they hiding something? It's possible they are hiding something but uh the government of India has made no statements about corruption whatsoever. So in case we have done something there perhaps possibly then we are not taking any claim or credit for it. So you know what India is doing? India is being super unpredictable. Nobody has any idea what what the government of India is planning. Even Indians have no idea what the government of India is planning and what what is the next step going to be like right are we are we deescalating are we disengaging or do we have a surprise in in plan surprise that's being planned like 3 days from now. So it's good to play the game this way. Keep all options open. Make people wonder what's coming next. Right. So I don't know what's happened in Karachi. Have we actually done something there? Have we done some military action in Karachi? There were rumors last night of of Karachi port being uh targeted in some way apparently by the Indian Navy. But but we haven't officially made any statements. So let's wait and watch. I think in a couple of weeks uh once the dust settles we will know exactly what happened. And I think a lot of people were going to be surprised to know what was going on all these days. So okay. Um okay. Avish Mishra says will there be an official declaration of war and why is Turkey showing interest in the conflict especially with Turkish drones being used? Uh we just discussed Turkey. Erdogan loves Pakistan. Turkey and Pakistan are very similar nations in a lot of ways and it's natural for them to show support for Pakistan and they have this shared hatred for polytheists like us and they have a shared hatred for ancient civilizations um and they have other things in common as well. Both countries have a criminal record not a history. They don't have a history they have a criminal record. So very similar they both have this terroristic mindset and uh yeah so that's why Turkey is showing interest in the conflict and they seek to gain something from Turkey as well from Pakistan as well maybe nuclear technology maybe something else right um and Turkey has this ambition of being the next leader of the Islamic world and they want to revive the Ottoman Empire and so on that sort of thing and their drones have failed which is buhoo and haha Now, will there be an official declaration of war? There's no need to de declare war officially. This is not the 19th century anymore. We declare war and then we shall fight and then we shall march on the field wearing red coats and we shall walk in formation while the bullets are flying and so on. No man, this is the 21st century. You don't have to declare war. We are at war. We will not declare war unless we do. That's for Mr. Modi to decide. But we are at war. Please understand that there's no need to fight a war properly once there's an official declaration. You keep saying every day that we are trying to deescalate but the Pakistanis are unwilling and we don't want war but you fight the war. That's the right way to do it. Okay. Uh Lero online says I saw a headline and trending in social media that the Baloistan u the people of Baluchistan have declared themselves as a sovereign country and they seek validation from the UN and first world nation. What's my take? Look uh I support this first of all. I think I tweeted this yesterday that it's an appropriate time. I I tweeted that in the middle of the night yesterday. I didn't sleep till 3:00 a.m. last night, you know, with all this action raging. So sometime in the night, maybe 1:00 a.m. 2:00 a.m. I tweeted this that this is an appropriate time for Balojasthan to declare its independence. And I don't care if it's just Twitter accounts are doing it, but I think everybody from Balojasthan who is on social media, whether it's X or whatever, they need to declare Balojasthan's independence. Uh and apparently there's something going on in um in Baljasthan. What's the capital of Balojasthan? The capital of Buljasthan is Queta obviously and apparently the Pakistan army is facing trouble in Queta and maybe I heard rumors yesterday I don't know if they're true that maybe they've withdrawn from Queta. So uh my point is they should support Balojasthan independence. If there are uh headlines and reports in social media that Balojasthan has declared declared independence, we as individuals one thing we can do is we can amplify their voice on social media and uh voice our support. So any any Twitter account who is saying Balojasthan is independent and it's free. We need to support it. We need to amplify it, right? So that's the least you can do. Send a tweet saying we support Balojasthan's independence and so on. That sort of thing. But has it actually happened? I think it's too early to know. I think Pakistan at this point in time, the Pakistani army, ISI terrorism, terrorist machinery, that one unified entity, I think thus far they are still in control of their country. The longer this war drags on, the more tenuous their hold on the country will become. Okay? Because as long as they're unable to inflict any damage on India and they keep absorbing the damage which is visible to the public, the longer that happens, the more their legitimacy will be questioned in Pakistan. They'll if your armed forces who are your dictatorial overlord, they look important and in and unable to justify their rule over you. Then people are going to overthrow them. That's the direction in which this is going. Okay. Swastik Mahesh says the Balojasthan Liberation Army claims that about 30% of Balojasthan area is independent. Is it possible that after the operation Synindur Baljasthan will declare complete independence from Pakistan? I think the Baljasthan Liberation Army has already declared long ago that Baljasthan is independent and they're fighting for that independence to make that make that statement into reality. That's what they're doing. Um it I think it's pretty certain that about 30% at least of Balachasan is not under the control of the Pakistani military. Even if you look at Kyber Paktuna, half of Kyber Pakuna is essentially independent. You know they there is no rule of law of Pakistan in about half of Kyber Pakuna. So I'm pretty sure about 30% of Baluchasan is lawless or they have their own law as per their wishes. uh so I think that should increase now and it is quite possible that once the dust settles over operation zindur and the ongoing war it's pretty it's quite possible that balasan may be independent it's pretty possible yeah they just says can we defeat Pakistan and elect a puppet PM in Pakistan in place of allowing it to disintegrate into parts I think the best way forward is uh to to have multiple independent nations we can certainly do it but it's a pain for uh what should happen is each of these provinces needs to be become independent. Let Hinduh become independent with the capital. Let Minagar or Karachi it was called Minanagar 2,000 years ago. It's today called Karachi. So let be independent with Karachi as the capital. Let Baljasthan be independent with Queta as the capital. Let Ky Pakunwa reintegrate with Afghanistan with our blessings and let Pakistan occupied Jammu and Kashmir Gilgit Baltistan return to the fold of mother India and let Punjabistan exist for a while. Right. Right. So and Debo says they are attacking Pokan now. So I have a TV screen behind behind this lens on the other side and something is happening in Jesi something in Kupwara something in Punch Baramula Uri Jammu and so on and apparently Pran so Pran is in Rajasthan they're attacking Pokran you see we are signaling to the world my friends that we want to deescalate we have retaliated to a Pakistani provoc ation and it should end with that. They punched us, they hit us and we hit back and that should be enough. But then they are trying to escalate. They're trying over and over again to escalate. So here's what what's going to happen. We today we the press conference the government gave today was a press conference that was very calm and it indicated our desire to end the matter here right and we did not really hit it hit hit any major Pakistan targets like Karachi Lahour whatever yesterday despite the and and today as well despite the constant pro Pakistani attempts to hit more than 20 Indian cities all night. So, we have given them an offramp, but now they're attacking Pokan again, right? So, if this situation now escalates and we respond twice as hard, whose fault is it going to be? You cannot be a nation that hosts Osama bin Laden and then gets to play victim. You can't be a nation that that that creates the Taliban and then gets to play victim. You can't be a nation that cuts off the head of journalists like Daniel Pearl and then gets to play victim. You can't be a nation whose whose citizens fly planes into buildings in New York City and then you get to play victim. So I think we need to remind the world of this that Pakistan is a terrorist nation and if they don't back down now right now within the next 14 days maximum the borders are going to change. So yeah that's that's the direction in which this is going. The borders will change. Okay. Two idiot NRIs says say say or says I don't know say say say say say say say say say say say say say say say say say say say say say say reports are that Pakistan has about 10 days of ammunitions they're low running low on fuel and naturally owesen money does pressing this for more than 10 days keep the advantage keep advantaging India even more why 14 is the upper limit okay you have raised a very important and interesting point Pakistan we know are always short in cash they are nation that's one step away from bankruptcy at any given day on any given day. Now this claim that you are making and based on reports that you've heard is that Pakistan has about 10 days of ammunition, munitions, whatever left. How credible is this claim? I think it's pretty credible. Why do I say this? In case you have been paying attention at what's been happening during Pakistan's vasage of the US during the Biden regime days, then you would have noticed that Pakistan as a good vasal of the US sent a lot of ammunition to Ukraine. They sent a lot of ammunition to Ukraine to help uh the cause of the Ukraine war as a good little of the US. And today they find themselves in the situation of their own making where India is not now willing to to let them off with a face saver. Pakistan does not get a safe face saver. The Pakistan ISI military terrorist entity does not get a face saver. Aimir does not get a face saver. If you want to back down, you will back down while being humiliated. Otherwise, bring it on. This time, India is going to be the unpredictable actor. Historically, the past 80 years, the Pakistanis have acted like the proverbial madman in a very calculated way by keeping on making threats like they're crazy. They forced India to to act like like the same like the same sparring partner. This time it's going to be the other way around. This time it's going to be very different and you're going to see this the next couple of days, next few days. Pakistan is not going to get a face saver and they're not going to be able to hit India and by chance if they hit any civilian area in India they're going to be they will they have no idea what's coming for them. They have absolutely no idea what's coming for them and you are right they are running out of ammunition. The Turks are sending aircraft to Pakistan with some supplies. Those supplies will not last. Turkey we will remember what you have been doing. will remember what Turkey has been doing and what role they have played and I would urge my fellow Indians and all civilized people. You know the Mediterranean region is a beautiful region. No question about it. You want to visit the Mediterranean, you want to visit the Agency, you want to visit the Ionian islands, you want to do all that, go to Greece, go to Italy, go to Sardinia. Yes. Go to Tuskani. Go to Sicily. Visit the Greek islands. Visit Cfalonia. Visit Greece. Visit Athens. Visit Sparti. Visit roads. Visit Greece. Do not visit Turkey. Okay? Do the world a favor. Do the civilized world a favor. Turkey is the European version of Pakistan and Albania is the Albania is the European version of Bangladesh. Okay, you get it? So uh coming back to the question yes Pakistan is running short of munitions and the US is not going to come to the rescue this time. The Chinese may try to do something. Do they have have enough time to turn the tide for Pakistan? Can Turkey turn the tide for Pakistan? Pakistan finds itself caught between a rock and a hard place. And the longer they keep this up, the the more they're going to find themselves running out of options. That's what's going to happen the next four, five, 6 days. In 7 days, there's going to be panic stations in Pakistan if this continues. Okay. So that's the direction in which this is going, which is which is dangerous. So India is going to have to play the game very well. We're going to have to manage the re rearrangement of the furniture of Pakistan very very carefully. Okay. Melon B says, "If Pakistan is dismantled and Bulajasthan comes into existence, what would our relationship with the state be like, what sort of geopolitical advantage would we gain with it? Gain from it?" Um, look, we would have access to um Guada first of all, if Balojasthan comes into existence as a sovereign nation, we're going to have a good relationship with the people of Balojasthan. We're going to help them. We're going to uh aid in the reconstruction of the nation. We will have projects for building for constructing highways and railways and and whatn not libraries and schools and a parliament building like we have done with Afghanistan. We will have the same kind of relationship with Baljasthan that we have with Afghanistan. Even the Taliban like India, even the Taliban have a have have warm feelings to feelings towards India because of our track record the past 30 40 years. It's not something like you know the US comes in and gives some aid for a for a few months and then disappears. We have consistently supported Afghanistan and the people of Afghanistan. We have u you know we have worked on projects. We have started projects and done things that have helped the common people of Afghanistan. agriculture project projects, dams, uh water canals, um the parliament building, everything we have done helps the common people, the common man, woman and child of Afghanistan. Even individual Taliban members, their families have benefited from what India has done, which is why nobody in Afghanistan hates India. Despite them being an Islamic nation, despite them being uh the Taliban, they still can't make themselves help hate India. and India and Taliban regime are cooperating. We have a good working relationship. Now if Balojasthan comes becomes a sovereign nation, we're going to have a similar uh relationship with with Balojasthan. Similar I mean something similar to what we have with Afghanistan. And we're going to help them the same way we have helped Afghanistan consistently for the past few decades. So it's going to be a very good relationship. We're going to help them set up a a completely new nation, right? And what geopolitical advantage we gain? We get access to the Macran coast. We can develop the port of Guadada. We can have Guadada in addition to Chabahar as a port of transport shipment into Afghanistan and various other places. So it's it's good. It's good. It's a win-win for both nations for Baljasthan as well as India. So yeah, it could happen in the next couple of weeks. Um what else do we have? Nikonju Sharma says what do you think will Pakistan learn anything from this or are they going to retain the same mindset and they'll repeat what they always do. So if you want to know whether someone is going to learn from what's happening now or whether they will learn nothing and keep doing the same thing, all you have to do to predict predict the future is to look at the past history. All you have to do is look at the past history. We have about roughly 80 years of Pakistan history, right? Roughly slightly less than that. Before that there was no Pakistan. It was part of our our land, our our civilization. So we have about 80 years of 80 years of history to look back at. In the past 80 years have they ever learned from their defeats? They have fought how many wars with India? 47 48 that's one war. Then 65 that's two. 71 is three. Uh 99 is four. And this is the fifth one. So they've lo they've fought four wars with us. They've lost every single war. 71 was devastating. It was a viv section of Pakistan. Have they ever learned anything from this? Have they changed their ways? They have never learned a thing. They have never changed their ways. They've always doubled down on fighting India. As long as this entity exists, it's going to keep behaving the same way. If we back down from what's happening, we deescalate and let Pakistan get away scot-free, then in two weeks time after the war is over, this war, today's war, in two weeks they will be going all over social media, going all over the western media saying that we actually won this engagement. They will be claiming in in two weeks time that we actually defeated India in this engagement. We forced them to back down. That's what they will be claiming all across Western media. And then they will double down on terrorism. They'll they'll tell their people that we actually defeated India. We frightened India. We made India back down. And now we're going to show them who we are. So as long as this entity exists, they're going to behave this way. They're going to behave the exact same way. So they have this today, you know, the the Pahelam attack was barbaric. It was extraordinarily painful to see how those people suffered, how the people were shot, how those ladies were s sitting and crying next to the bodies of their relatives. Horrible thing. But by doing this, Pakistan has given India a golden opportunity to end this once and for all. And India should not back down. The Pakistanis are not going to back down. They're going to continue the strikes on India. So, so this is the time everyone asks me in every I how many ask sessions I've done. This is the 244th episode, right? In every episode from episode 1 until today's episode, episode 244, people have asked me when is the right time to take back P. This is the right time. Okay. Uh, noisan says what about Afghanistan? As they said, they would support Pakistan if India takes any action after the Palam attack. I am not sure who in Afghanistan has said said that. Uh, as far as I know and I've seen the Taliban actually supported India uh expressed support towards India after the news of the Pahelgam attack came out. The Taliban do not support Pakistan. The the Taliban despise of they despise Pakistan. They are pons. Do you have any idea how much the Pashons have suffered at the hands of the Pakistanis? How much Afghanistan has suffered at the hands of Pakistan? Why is Afghanistan a war torn devastated nation? Because of Pakistan. The Pashons hate Pakistan and Pakistan occupies a significant portion of historical Pashon land which is what what's called the Kyber Pakum province of Pakistan KPK. So Pakistan and Afghanistan have a deep longstanding century and a half long or older than that territorial dispute. The Taliban are pashur nationalists. They want the pashon territory back and they have this blood enmity with the Punjabis the Punjab Pakistani Punjabis. Afghanistan is not going to support Pakistan. Okay. Um and go and see on social media what's what the reactions of the Afghans are. I'm not going to ask you to cherrypick the good reactions. I'm going to tell you do a survey of statistical survey of what is the kind of reaction like take a 100 samples take 200 samples of Afghan reactions on social media to the ongoing war with between India and Pakistan who's supporting whom? I assure you a majority of Afghans pashons at least support India and the pashons are the majority population. Uh, Dongar Sik Johan says, "Do you really think doing blackouts in the age of infrared goggles, thermal cameras, and GPS does it really makes any sense?" Well, it doesn't it doesn't hurt to take extra precautions. I I know what you're saying and I kind of agree with you actually. But you know there's no harm in taking extra precautions because see Pakistan does have Turkish drones which they have in limited numbers and most modern drones you can feed GPS coordinates into them and the drone will just fly. Whether it's day or night doesn't matter. Whether there's light or not not doesn't matter. So whether you black out your city or not doesn't really matter if you have a drone that has GPS coordinates fed into it and is able to access GPS by by using whatever means in that case your blackout won't matter in case you're firing a missile at someone and uh once again if you can feed coordinates into the into the missile it doesn't really matter but we know that Pakistan is a pretty primitive nation. Look, I'm not saying India is a very advanced nation. We are also a third world nation. But compared if you compare India and Pakistan and Pakistan is fourth world, right? So if you look at the weapon systems they have, not all of those weapon systems are 21st century weapon systems. Some of them could be pretty primitive. So if you have a city that is in that is blacked out, then maybe it gives you a better chance. Maybe not all of Pakistan's weapons use GPS. Maybe some of them need visual confirmation of the target. It always helps to take extra precautions. It doesn't hurt at all, right? Yeah. It's it's kind of an inconvenience. The city is blacked out. There's no power. You have to put the curtains curtains on the windows and use little light. Maybe there's no internet. So, you can't do scrolling of Instagram res. Okay. Small price to pay. So, you're right actually. But uh overall I think it doesn't it doesn't hurt to take extra precautions. Siligurian Dormon says Siligurian Dormon if Pakistan falls apart what happens to its nuclear weapons and that's a big question. That is the big question that we we're going to have to address because it is probably going to fall apart sometime soon. So what happens to the nukes? I think we're going to have to have a cons contingency plan. Now, I can't give you the answers, but the Indian military and the Indian uh armed forces government, they will probably have a plan for this. How to secure the nukes before they start floating around the world. We don't want lose nukes. So, I am pretty sure we have a very very clear idea of where the nukes are. And I'm sure we have multiple contingency plans, plan A, plan B, plan C, multiple scenarios of what to do when Pakistan starts breaking apart. Maklavin says, "So Chinese air defenses failed to stop her drones and now apparently an intact Chinese missile was found in Indian territory. Can we say the Chinese weapons aren't really up to the mark?" Uh, I think we can safely say that. Um so the Pakistanis have Chinese uh radars and air defense systems and those failed completely. Pakistan has been hit at will by India not with supersonic cruise missiles which are very hard to stop by anyone but we have hit them with loitering drones subsonic drones right drones that you can see coming in and screaming down and then hitting the target and they haven't been able to take these drones out. Maybe they took a few drones out, but we have scored multiple very, very painful, damaging hits. We took out Lahor's air defense system. We destroyed so many of those terror infrastructure buildings and whatnot. The headquarters of the of the LA, we uh took out the the terrorists who killed Daniel Pearl and and so at least 100 more terrorists have died. The Pakistani military gave them state funerals. We have been able to hit Pakistan at will and the Pakistani air defenses failed. And what's worse is that we sent drones to film the hits. So we had systems that were targeting the terror infrastructure and dropping bombs and missiles and whatnot at these buildings. At the same time we had drones which were loitering over the over the area and filming what was happening and the films have been put out in the public domain and those are that is evidence that cannot that is that is incontrovertible. So we had drones flying over Pakistan just standing there essentially floating over an area and filming the hits calmly and the Pakistanis were not able to take those drones out. So what's very clear is that Pakistan's air defense is is joke. It's it's a joke. It's non-existent. Forget about stopping Abraos. They can't even detect a drone, a slowmoving loitering drone. That's how bad the Chinese air defense systems are. Because these are Chinese air defense systems. Yeah. And they have fired air fired Chinese missiles at us. And apparently a Chinese missile was found found deep into deep inside Indian territory. More or less intact. It apparently did not hit any target. It just ran out of fuel and dropped. So it's kind of damaged but not damaged in the sense that it slammed into something. It just ran out of fuel and dropped down. That's it. So that's um I would say very valuable war booty. and our engineers and scientists are now going to take that thing apart and they're going to glean out all the secrets, all the secrets of China's technology. Maybe the missiles were better than the air defense systems, right? At least the missile flew 100 km into Indian territory before dropping and not doing anything. But what kind of seekers does do those missiles have and what are the electronics like and so on? That's very interesting to know and I'm sure the our our American friends will also be interested in knowing what this is like. So maybe we can make a trade you know you give us David Coleman Headley Headley and we give you the Chinese missile or something like that. Um, Bang says, "In the worst case scenario of a nuclear exchange, are we capable of intercepting their warheads without major losses on our side?" Probably. Yeah. See they have tried one thing that's very clear is that the Pakistanis have tried their best to hit Indian targets like not towns and villages but big cities military installations they've they've lobbed hundreds of drones and missiles at us and our air defenses have taken all of these down no major hits have happened right so we have been able to take out drones maybe cruise missiles and be maybe rockets. Now when it comes to a nuclear exchange, a hypothetical scenario which we don't ever want to see but let's discuss it. When it comes to a nuclear exchange, there's two way of delivering nukes as far as I understand from the Pakistani side. One is ballistic missiles. They have all those ugly sounding ballistic missiles, right? All those names uh names of Turk invaders, Gori, Gaznavi and whatnot. So those are short to medium-range ballistic missiles. Those have a very predictable par parabolic trajectory and once you know it's launched, you kind of know where it's going. That's one way of delivering a nuke for from Pakistan's perspective. The other way is to send a fighter plane with a nuclear tipped missile on it. So even if the fighter plane is taken out, the missile may be hard to take out in that sort of scenario. Now I am pretty sure that the S400 can take out incoming ballistic missiles and cruise missiles. The these people have cruise missiles as well which may be you know low-flying cruise missiles. So our air defenses will be extremely high alert the next couple of weeks. Um I am sure that we have systems apart from the S400 that can also do the job. For example, we have the Priti air defense system which is a two missile system. One missile does the interception exo atmospherically outside of the earth's atmosphere that is above 100 km from the earth's surface and there's a second layer which is the endopheric interception which intercepts the incoming missile at about uh at about 40 km height. So it's a two-stage system. If the first one fails the second one will come into action that sort of thing. And then we have point defense systems which include the the the the the Akash missile and whatever else we've been using the past couple of days. So I think we have pretty good uh air defense systems which can take out missiles of various kinds. Um so I think we we should be in good shape and uh we will probably have these systems u uh positioned in strategic locations in all major cities. That's what I expect without actually knowing uh the details. Right? So I think we should be in good in good shape and I think we should not worry too much about this. Okay. Um, daddy of dudu or di whatever says when Pakistan breaks up, what happens to the Pakistani army who controls the bases in Sindra, Punjab, Buljasthan, Kyber Pakula? Whose vasals will they be and who will have boots on the ground? Good question. Look, when Pakistan breaks up, the army needs to be what's the politically correct word? It needs to be neutralized. Okay. It needs to be um yeah I I would say it needs to be neutralized by by India whenever the breakup happens. Uh no element who was a member of the armed forces can be allowed to to roam the world free. They are all criminals. So they will all have to be rounded up and processed. And uh overall this this organization uh the ISI military terrorism combination combined entity it needs to be completely thoroughly defanged and neutralized in whichever way is necessary. Well let's not get into the details those operational details the armed forces can take care of in their own way and they know how to do it. So that needs to happen to the Pakistan army. Absolutely. Then the question is who gets to control the bases in Sindraesh, Punjab, Baljasthan, Karakuma. Um eventually these nations once they become properly independent and stand on their feet, they can set up their own things. But I think we should be there in an advisory uh capacity. India, we should learn from the way the Bangladesh situation was happen was handled in 1971. We just handed over Bangladesh to to a very new and inexperienced government which was soon taken out by the military and it became a military dictatorship. We don't want new military dictatorships emerging in these four nations. However, Patun can go back into Afghanistan and the Taliban government can take care of it. That's fine. But Sudesh, Punjab, Baluchasthan should have proper clean non-military democracies and no military rule again in the future. So we need to have a transition phase of a few years in which we handhold them through the process of becoming proper good democracies and all that. So I think we need to do it not anybody else and we can't have the United Nations coming in parachuting in we we liberate the countries and the UN comes in then no stay out get out. So uh we will have to do this whenever this happens hopefully soon. Uh we don't want to call them vasals and we should not treat anyone as vasals. We don't play the game that way, but we will certainly be um so to say a mentor or a guide and overall the civilizational um same entity, right? That sort of thing. Okay. Veov says, "Don't trust the media. I was a practicing anti- media. I trusted them for once yesterday and they betrayed me by spreading lies about Karachi airport and a Pakistani soldier." Okay. Okay, I don't know which media network betrayed you. Look, the Indian media is a joke. The Indian media is a joke. I repeat that. Have you seen the Indian media coverage of anything? It's hyperbolic. It's over the top. I was trying to watch some news today and half the Indian media channels who are covering the war have sirens going on in the background. So there are like 78 people on the screen trying to talk at the same time. In the background there's the sound wailing sound of of sirens and and and below the the participants there are flames and and helicopters and fighter planes flying around. That's the way they they do their job. That's that's their coverage of of of of a war. And even the calmst channels will have six people minimum on the screen all talking at the same time. and their analysis uh it is painful to watch and there are certain India Indian media channels on which retired armed forces people come wearing uniforms and they will they'll be happy to say whatever is the most inflammatory thing and of course you're paid to do this so they'll play their role and the I would say the Hindi speaking media is is the the the level of analysis is like several notches below the English speaking media and in the English speaking channels there are no real analysts h the best analysts they have are news readers they simply read the news of a teleprompter they don't have any analytical ability so the Indian media is a joke and then there's a lot of nonsense that comes out on it okay and uh half of what they claim during wartime time is is just rumors. Some of it may be true but uh as long as the government doesn't corroborate it, it it becomes a rumor. So that sort of thing. My point is um it it is it is not a good idea to trust what the media says. Um and some of the Indian media outlets actually take the side of the enemy and it's high time for the government to block these from being accessed in India. It's okay for them to be accessible to Pakistanis but not here in India. Lot of India's med a lot of India's media outlets a significant percentage of these take the side of India's enemies. Uh so that's a big problem for India. So yeah it's it's difficult to trust the media. It's hard to trust the media and you should not trust the media. Uh what I would suggest is that you should only believe what the government says. uh if if you are from the US or if you are from the west listening to this they laugh at what we are saying because they don't trust their governments but at this time in India you should only believe what is of what is being said officially in the daily press conferences of course they will of not tell you everything that's happening but it's a good thing um geopolitical dub says is there any possibility of a military coup because of the pressure of on the army in the temporary nation again. Oh, it's a big possibility. Uh if the next few days Pakistan can't you know land blows on India, Aim Mun his job is going to be very tenuous. His his job is going to be under threat. His life could be under threat. And the longer this continues and the longer Pakistan is hit by India at will and the longer the Pakistanis are unable to land blows on India, the higher the pressure will mount on the Pakistani military leadership. The first target is going to be Aim Munir. The first thing that generals will do is that they're going to put point the finger of blame at at Aim Munir. He's going to be out. It may happen in the next 3 4 days, one week at most. If in one week's time Pakistan is still being hammered and is unable to do anything back at India, aim I can promise you is going to be gone. But then whoever comes in his place, the pressure will immediately fall on that person. So even a military coup is not going to solve the problem the Pakistani military faces. And the problem is that they are incapable of defeating India and they're incapable of defending their country against India. So that is the conundrum and that's why if the situation continues in two weeks time Pakistan is going to disintegrate maximum two weeks time. Amisha says Dr. Jash Shankar the Indian foreign minister says firm resolute response to terrorism at Europe day celebrations. I think the message is loud and clear. So Dr. Jashankar is doing exactly what needs to be done. I was saying yesterday somebody had asked me what should be done, what should India do when it comes to messaging to the world about what's happening and he's doing exactly what needs to be done. He's talking to all the top diplomats in the world, all the foreign ministers, all the people that matter and he is constantly conveying India's position that we are doing the right thing. We are not a terrorist nation. We are fighting against terrorism. We are simply responding to terror and our our actions are measured and they are proportionate and we are willing to deescalate right now as long as the Pakistanis back down and stand down but if they escalate we're going to respond to that. So that message is loud and clear. It's being re reiterated every single day which which is what needs to happen. So good exactly what's needs what needs to be done. Okay. Pranay Paul says how vulnerable are Indian cities in the east like Gujhati or Kolkata to proxy attacks or misdirection tactics. Yeah. Uh I kind of took that question some time ago. The question from Chuching. Uh every Indian city whether it's east, west, north, south is going to have to be on much higher alert than normal because our cities are infiltrated by foreigners. We may have a 100 million Bangladeshes living in India, right? And we have had years to take care of the threat, but how many have been deported? These people, the the illegal Bangladeshi infiltrators, the illegal Rohingya infiltrators, the illegal Pakistani infiltrators, the illegal cookies, these people are foreigners. They don't have any allegiance to Indian culture, civilization or the Indian nation. They have no love for us, the Indian people. They can be used as tools as pawns by foreign forces to wage war against our nation from within. So um and look Pakistan is finding out very badly that it's unable to land any military blows on India. So then they will want to resort to their standard tactics of terrorism and they will have sleeper cells within India. all these foreigners who are sitting in India and if you want to activate Rohingya in Bangladesh, the Bangladesh government will be happy to do it. Muhammad Inus is an enemy of India and uh even the cookies may have some connections with Muhammad or perhaps China perhaps China or or who knows what else. So you know big big big problem we have enemies within and as long as they exist on our soil we are vulnerable. So yeah, we we are uh uh we are at at risk when it comes to these matters. Samaruti says uh Pakistani F-16 went down with an Awax aircraft as well advanced warning ADL combat system or something it's called with no confirmation of of Chinese two JF7s down. What do you think? Also seems like explosions heard in Samba, Jammu and Kashmir right now on Samba and Patan Kot also. Look the action is continuing. The war is on right now as we speak. I can see on the TV screen behind me that Pakistan is apparently widening the conflict. It it is attacking the west of India and the north of India right now as we speak apparently. And uh what about these aircraft that have apparently been hit? One Avax. The Avac would have been flying over Pakistan territory. uh it would not be stupid enough to to intrude into Indian territory but F-16s and J17s they will come into Indian territory if they are deployed and if they are doing that they are sending their pilots to their deaths. So even I heard the last 48 hours that uh one F-16 and two JF7s went down but the Indian government has not said a word about this. So we we stay quiet because look the Pakistanis as long as we don't show the proof the Pakistanis will try to brush this under under the carpet that they lost two aircraft or three aircraft and the Pakistanis have a history of downoning their soldiers. So how about we keep this quiet? We don't shot from the rooftops that we took out three fighter planes. We take the pilots and we interrogate them. They find out everything they have we have to there is to know from these pilots. And if we tell the world that we have one pilot or two pilots who are uh who who who have been captured then then the world will start pressure trying to pressurize India you know be magnanimous and return the pirate to Pakistan. You know the Pakistanis gave back Abinandan. They gave back Abinandan because we said we're going to fratten your country with Brahos missiles all over the place. That's why they gave Abinand back. So if we have a Pakistani pilot, if we have, I'm not saying we have, but if we have a Pakistani pilot, we should not tell the world about it. Hold him, squeeze him, interrogate him, be humane. We don't like Pakistanis who will torture prisoners, but interrogate the guy, right? Get out all the valuable intel and then we'll see what to do later. So, so in case we have shot down fighter planes, maybe that's why we are keeping it quiet perhaps. But I'm not saying we have. I'm not saying we have. I'm not saying we have not. You know, it's all hypotheticals right now. But I hope you understand the thought process behind keeping such a matter quiet if it has happened. Okay. Geopolitical Dub again says, "Will the borders of India, Israel, and Russia expand in the near future? Is it inevitable? Russia's borders have expanded recently. They took Crimea in 2014 and now they've taken since 22 they've taken about roughly roughly a quarter of Ukraine give or take 1/4 or 1/5if of Ukraine. So their borders have already changed. Maybe if there's a ceasefire agreement sometime soon then the borders will kind of freeze for a while for Russia. Uh apart from the Ukraine region, I don't see any Russian expansion anywhere else in the near future at least. Uh so that's about Russia. Israel. Yeah, I think uh their borders have expanded recently after the Syria Syria regime change operation and all that. They've got they have nibbled away at some parts of Syria and they have control over more of the territory in the Golan Heights region and around that time mount he what I forget the name of the mountain and so on. So yeah, Israel's territory has kind of crept uh forward a little bit. What about India? I think in the next two weeks the borders of the subcontinent will subcontinent may change if Pakistan collapses. If this war continues the next two weeks Pakistan will collapse. That's that's how far actually that's how close Pakistan is to collapse. Just two weeks maximum if this war continues in that case the borders of India will change they will expand. Kush Adwani says what news sources do you follow to know what's happening live? I look at everything. I if I decide that okay I want I want to take stock of what's happening I give myself 15 minutes 20 minutes maybe half an hour and I just surf all TV channels all the news channels uh you go to YouTube and it's live you go there's live live streams of all major media outlets whether it's Indian media outlets or other media outlets and you quickly scan what's happening and what they are saying that's how I do it and obviously I have online sources as well that I read so the right approach for me from my perspective is to have a 360 degree perspective. Uh see what what Indian channels are saying. See what Pakistani channels if accessible are saying. See what the west is saying. See what the Chinese are saying. See what the Russians are saying. See what everybody else is saying. See what the Arabs are saying. Al Jazza. Get a 360°ree perspective. And I because of uh my understanding I know what perspective each media network has. I know what BBC will say about India. I know what uh Alzer will say about India. I know what the New York Times will say. I know what the Washington Post will say. I know what Lufigo will say. I know what Deutsche will say. I know each channel has a specific approach towards India and the matters of the subcontinent. So if they are saying this, what does it really mean? I kind of can tell, you know, I it's it's something you develop over time with experience. So that's what I do and then I get a proper perspective and then I draw my own conclusions based on very specific data points, hard data points which is typically numbers, which is typically based on numbers. So you can actually you know uh foresee scenarios and assign percentages to each scenario and that sort of thing a forecasting methodology which involves a bit of statistical analysis and predictive analysis. So that's kind of how I do things. Okay. Tushar says Tushar Kalborgi says has a coup against the Pakistani chief as Munir. I don't see any such thing having happened thus far. Now this is an interesting point by Jotish Sharma. We could see Pakistan sending civilian aircraft right now hiding behind civilian aircraft while attacking. What steps could be done? Let's take a look at this shall we? Give me a second. I'll put this on the screen. I usually have a map on the screen. This time I'm going to have a different kind of a map on the screen. Give me a second. And this is a live view of uh air activity in the world. This is called flight radar 24. It's a it's a very good resource to to that you can use to see what's happening. So as always, you're going to have a big hole in the sky. Nothing flying over Ukraine for obvious reasons. Nobody wants to fly over Ukraine right now. And now over Pakistan, you have a couple of aircraft So as you can see we have a whole bunch of aircraft in Delhi but we have shut off the airspace north of Delhi. So so there's no aircraft going to Lei, there's no aircraft going into Punjab, no aircraft going to Chandigar, no aircraft aircraft going into Shirinagar and so on. Rajasthan also seems to be right now um quiet but in Pakistan there are aircraft flying. What is this? This is a Pakistan International Airlines aircraft from Karachi to Lahore. Now you have more aircraft. This is what this is Islamabad the Dam. What is this here? Karach to Islamabad and so on. So they are still operating commercial aircraft at a time when they are at war and they are trying to hit Indian uh targets with drones and missiles and rockets and they know that India is going to fight fire back at them. So what the Pakistanis want let me explain to you. Okay. Okay. What the Pakistanis want? They want India to mistakenly target a civilian aircraft so that they get to cry victim. They get to play victim. If India makes a mistake and by mistake takes down a civilian aircraft which can happen during a time of war, then Pakistan gets to play victim. That's what they're trying to do. They have their own civilians who are flying in these commercial planes and they are using these civilians as shields. These look just imagine what kind of mindset the Pakistani government military ISI terrorism complex has a criminal mindset. They are hiding behind their own civilians. They're using their own civilians as shields and they want India to shoot down one of these commercial aircraft. If that happens, they can they can go to the world and say that India is is evil and we are the victims and we are the and India is the aggressor. That's what they are trying to do. Shameful people. They want this to happen. They want their people to die. They want India to make a mistake and shoot down a civilian aircraft. Abysmal, horrible, horrible approach the Pakistanis have. Uh, okay. What else do we have? Luffy says, "India's military vastly outmatches Pakistan's. Yet history shows that weaker powers like Vietnam and Afghanistan have defeated stronger adversaries. Can Pakistan ever dream of doing the same. So Vietnam defeated the United States. The United States came from half the planet away. And the Vietnamese knew how to fight on their own land, right? And they knew that land very well. and they were fighting for their homeland. So they were much more motivated than the Americans who were who had come from god knows where and who had who half of them did they don't even know what they were fighting for. That's why the Vietnamese were able to win at tremendous cost to their country. They're still paying the price. There are still bombs all over Vietnam. Horrible. What about Afghanistan? Afghanistan was invaded by the Soviets. The Soviet Union is far away. The Russians Russia is far away from Afghanistan, right? So the Afghans, the Pashons were defending their homeland. They had nowhere else to go. So they were they fought and that's why they won and they understood their territory better than the Russians. That's why they fought. Now when it comes to fight between India and Pakistan, um Pakistan is historically our territory. It was given away by people against who did not consult India. So we know the territory like the back of our hand. It is our territory and we are not foreign invaders. So you you see there's a big difference big huge difference and we are not going to kill the Pakistanis and steal their land. We're going to liberate them from the oppressor which is the Pakistani military ISI terrorism complex. So we are not foreign invaders. We're going to be liberators and our power does vastly outmatch Pakistan and all that. So you have to pick the right examples. Giving the example of Vietnam against the US or Afghanistan against the USSR is not the right example. It's not the right comparison to make. In our case of Pakistan is our territory historically. We know it really well. We know the people. We know the culture. We know everything. And we're fighting a just war here. We are the victims and we want to liberate the people of Pakistan from the oppressor and we don't want to steal their resources and their territory and what not. We just want to end the reign of terror of the Pakistani ISI military complex and then be done with it. Big big big difference huge difference. Okay. Surendra Gupta says the S400 proves to be a sophisticated air defense system. What are the other air defense systems being used by India? The S400 is hardly being used. Okay, the don't don't listen to the media. The media has no idea what's happening. The S400, like I said in the beginning of today's live stream, the S400 is used for very specific cases. It is used to take out fighter planes. It's used to take out ballistic missiles and possibly cruise missiles. It's not used to take out drones and rockets and artillery shells and whatnot. No, that for doing that we have other systems. And the system that has turned out to be the superstar in the past 48 hours is the Akash SAM, the Akash surfaceto-air missile that's turned out to be the real superhero in the past 48 hours. So it's the Akash SAM that has been the the hero, the star of the action the past 40,000 and right now as well the S400 it's used for bigger threats like F-16s like JF17 fighter planes made by China or ballistic missiles and so on short to medium range and so on. Okay, Dave says how long are we going to play defense? I think it's high time we should make the first move rather than waiting for Pakistan to make the move. What are your thoughts on [Music] this? Patience. And I'm not saying be patient the next 10 years. I'm saying wait one to two weeks. See, let's understand what's happening. I I understand. I I see um I see journalists on Twitter saying how I I don't understand India's restraint. A journalist tweeted that yesterday. Understand what's happening. The Pakistanis for better or for worse, for good or for bad have given India a once in 80 years opportunity to end the terror state once and for all. Okay. Pakistan is running short of supplies. They as a vasal of the Biden regime, they gave a lot of ammunition to Ukraine. Now they are running short of ammunition. They are trying to lob missiles and rockets and drones at us right now. It's happening right now. Last night they fired they they they lobbed more than 400 to 500 drones, Turkish drones at us. Nothing was hit. Everything was taken out and we have been hitting them at will. We did it very visibly. The Pakistanis can't deny what we've destroyed. the terror infrastructure, the headquarters of the the lashkar toba, the cricket stadium in raindi, the air defense system in Lahore and something in Karachi and whatn not we have hit them visibly in broad daylight at will. So what is the perception that the Pakistani public will have? The military is incompetent. Incompetent. They can't defend the country. They can't defend themselves and they can't hit India even though they've been trying the past 14 hours. The longer this situation continues, the more pressure there will be on the military. And the more the fault lines within Pakistan will become active. Balojasthan is already declaring independence. Sindra will become restive. the khibar pakun who are the puns they'll say enough we don't want the Pakistani military above us we are going back to Afghanistan they'll rise up and revolt against the Pakistani military and soon you'll have revolts all over the country the longer this lasts the more precarious the situation of the Pakistani military uh dictatorship become becomes all we have to do see if the Pakistanis failed to hit a big target in India then it means the military is is an illegitimate force and this they've been trying 48 hours they'll try tonight won't work they'll try it next 3 4 days by the time the public pressure will be too high and you'll have riots on the streets so the Pakistani military is facing a clicking a ticking clock a countdown to zero two weeks at most before Pakistan disintegrates two weeks at most before Pakistan disintegrates so we don't have to Play offense. Play defense. Make sure Pakistan can't hit you. They keep trying to hit you. Don't allow them. And when the time is right, you make your move. And the time is going to be right within the next 2 weeks. Wait. Have a little patience. We have waited how many years? Almost 80 years. Wait. It's going to take two to 14 days. 2 to 14 days if the situation continues. Unless the Indian government says okay, we will genuinely disengage which I don't think Mr. Modi wants to do knowing Mr. Modi. Mr. Modi, Mr. Modi is a different kind of prime minister. I don't think he will let go of this opportunity. And the Americans are uh have made it very clear that as long as the situation doesn't spill beyond the Indian subcontinent, we can do what we want. I think we are living in a historic time. We are witnessing um a turning point in world history. The beginning of the turning point. So patience, patience. All right. Um same question. Will Pakistan learn a lesson or continue terrorism in the future? They won't last more than two weeks the way things are going. So there's no lesson to be learned. It's over. Pakistan won't exist possibly in two weeks. And I hope I am right. Okay. Um, Mr. 88 says, "Is there any chance the US may impose sanctions on us if the war drags on as the Indian government consider the threat the threat of potential US tariffs? We are currently in the process of negotiating the the tariff issue with the US right now. Right now as we speak, we may be in the final phases of the negotiations. So we are doing exactly what the Americans want when it comes to the tariffs. So so there is nothing um there is no point of contention there. When it comes to sanctions, why would they sanction a nation that they need on their side? They need on to be on the side in the effort to contain China. We are in the beginning of a of a new cold war. The US versus China and they need India on their side. India is a vital piece of the puzzle for them. It's the only nation in Eurasia that can stand up to China. Russia can, but Russia is on China's side right now because Russia has no choice. So in the US needs India on its side. Why why would they impose sanctions on India? You would do that only if you're suicidal, right? There is no chance the US will impose sanctions on India. And if you go by the what what JD Vance, the vice president of the US said yesterday, he essentially gave the message that India can do what it wants with Pakistan as long as the situation does not spill out of beyond the Indian subcontinent. Deal with them, do whatever you want, but be on our side when it comes to China. Right. Um let's see what else do we have. Um we're going to talk about the Pakistan issue today. There are all kinds of other questions but right now is not the time for the other questions. Um geopolitical dubas is India waiting. Now this is a good question. Is India waiting for Pakistan to use up all their drones, all their missiles? Yeah. Then they will come they will charge at us on horses and donkeys. See Pakistan has a limited supply of drones, missiles, whatso whatever. They may have some factories that that make bullets and shells perhaps but the sophisticated weaponry like drones, missiles and whatnot, it comes from beyond Pakistan. Uh some of it is supplied by China, some of it by Turkey. The drones they used yesterday, 400, 500 drones, they were these were Turkish drones all failed. So yeah, let's wait. Let's wait. Let them try. Let them try. It's happening right now. They're they're firing more drones. Apparently, there are blasts in Kurtarpur and so on. They are trying. The Pakistanis are trying. Keep trying. We have adequate supplies of everything we need. We have our own factories that make the the drones and ammunition and whatnot. So, just wait patiently next 3 4 days, one week. In one week, they'll have nothing left. So yeah, you're right. It's a wait and watch strategy right now. Right now, let them use up everything they have. Then we'll deal with them. Divan Shu says, "Uh, does this Indopak war have anything have any connection or relation to the Bangladesh uprising? Like can we link this war to the uprisings in Bangladesh? Are there uprisings in Bangladesh right now? I am not aware of. If there are uprisings happening in Bangladesh right now, I'm not aware of them. We recently had a regime change in Bangladesh. Is that what you're referring to? In which Shazina was ousted and uh Muhammad Yinus was was brought to power by the Americans. That was the Biden regime. Trump doesn't seem to have any fondness for the Biden regime u installed government in Bangladesh. But they may use it for something. Maybe they want to have an air base or some kind of military base in Bangladesh. In which case Bangladesh will be useful to them, useful for them. But I don't think the Indopac war that's happening right now is connected to Bangladesh. If Bangladesh if Bangladesh becomes active militarily then there there may be a connection. But right now this is simply Pakistan's own doing this is simply their own stupidity that has brought them in this in this position of being caught between a rock and a hard place with nowhere to go. Here here both bad. That's where they are right now. So this is a problem that they find themselves in and it's a problem of their own making. They made this. They have dug their grave. Kick says, "Isn't it dangerous to engage in a long war when there's more than 100 million illegal infiltrators again inside India? Now Pakistani agents can easily enter India via East Pakistan. That's the one Achilles heel of India. And I I simply don't understand why the government has not evicted these illegals the past 10 11 years. I just don't get it. So that is a problem. Now I hope that this war serves as an inflection point as a turning point as a tipping point for India and going forward we adopt a complete non-tolerance policy towards illegal infiltrators. Recently we uh deported tens of thousands of illegal Pakistani infiltrators who had been living in India. Some of them for decades. Some of them even have generations of of kids living in India. All of them have to be deported. Just because you born in India doesn't make you Indian. Do you understand that? That's India's policy. That's India's law. We don't recognize citizenship by birth. We don't recognize Yusuli. We recognize Yus Sanguinis citizenship by descent. So if you are a Bangladeshi who infiltrated into India in 1971 and that Bangladeshi has children and grandchildren, they should all be deported. You cannot be soft-hearted in matters of national security when it comes to people who have no allegiance to you or your nation or your culture or your civilization. They have to be all deported. It's not my fault that they were born here. Right? It's not our country's fault that they were born here. They came in illegally. They have to go out. The same applies to Rohingya, to Bangladesh, to Pakistanis, to cookies, everybody out. I hope the government adopts a non-tolerance policy going forward because it is a national security threat. It is a huge drain on our economy. Imagine a 100 million people leeching of your economy, of your resources. It's high time the government does something about this. Let this be hopefully um a tipping point, a turning point for India. I hope so. Tanmay Desh Pand says, I heard that tonight's IMF meeting, International Monetary Fund meeting will decide the future of the war of this war. If the Pakistanis are given a loan, then India will not back down. What are my thoughts? Because they attacked Jammu right now. Who is the IMF to decide the future of this war or the future of what happens in our subcontinent? Who the hell are the IMF to decide that? And if they give a loan to Pakistan, they are simply funding and financing terrorism. I think it will make sense for them not to do it. But if they do, well then we we should do what we have to do. And we have Pakistan where Pakistan deserves to be right now. Caught between a rock and a hard place. Caught between the devil and the deep sea. So now that we have Pakistan where we want them, we should take this to the end game and finish this off. When there's no Pakistan left, what will the IMF do? Who will they give that money to? It's a matter of one or two weeks. Yeah. So, Pakistan will be attacking right now. I don't know. They're attacking Jammu. Are they possibly? I have a TV screen in front of me on the other side of the lens. So, behind the lens, right? And the same question I get every time. Space Ed says, "Is this is the best chance to capture PK? It'll affect both Pakistan and China. Why is India not taking advantage of the situation?" I answered the question just now like 5 minutes ago. This is not the best chance to to capture P. This is the best chance to dismantle Pakistan. This is bigger than P. This is free Balo. This is this is the independence of Balojasthan. This is the independence of Sinduh. This is the reintegration of Kaibar Pakuna into Afghanistan and the reintegration of Gilgit Baltistan and Pakistan occupied Kashmir into India. That's what we are staring at right now. That's where we are. It's not about P anymore. It's about the future of Pakistan itself. Pakistan has reached that stage right now that in two weeks there would there can be no there possibly will be no Pakistan left. That's where we are. Nutan says what about project K? It's not about Pakistan. But yeah, what about project K? I think it all depends on the Trump regime because project K cookie land for Christ. this project of creating a fake artificial Pakistan-like country out of parts of India, Bangladesh, uh Myanmar and the Indian states of Manipur and uh Misoram. That project cookie land for Christ project K is a US creation. It was a creation of the Biden regime which was very bitterly anti-India. Now Trump seems to have a different policy towards India. He needs India on on his side when it comes to the China matter. I think it is time for Trump and his regime, his administration to to end the funding and the support for project K and whatever other uh nefarious activities the Americans have been um conducting in India's far east which in includes Misoram, Manipur, Nagaland and whatnot, Arunachala Pradesh as well. the industrial scale Christianization project that has been going on for a long time all of that needs to end if they need us if they want us on their side so project K needs to be dismantled and once that happens India should take the same kind of action in Manipur and Mizuram that's what's happening right now on the western border and evict all the foreigners squatting on Indian territory and and um you know brutalizing the natives the indigenous Indians that needs to happen so I think that's the next phase once Once we deal with Pakistan, we need to deal with that. Right. Okay. Let's see some more questions. Um, Yubra Shikawad says, "Why are you saying cookies are outsiders? Some of them are in India, some are in Bangladesh, some are in Myanmar. So, we have some culture link. Why? So, why we join them in India instead of breaking India?" Sir, you have absolutely no understanding of the history, right? You only see the perspective of you take a picture of the world like this as it is right now and you say oh there are these people here so why are you seeing the outsiders learn some history study some history take some time take some time spend some energy I know studying is hard and difficult it hurts the mind if you don't know your history you will never know what's going to happen to your country you will have no control over what's happening the cookies are foreigners they were brought in by the British as a punishment to the locals. Please learn history before talking nonsense sir. Otherwise you'll say even Bangladeshes are insiders. Why are you saying we should remove Bangladeshes? If you don't know history, you should spend some time to study it before making silly statements. Okay? No foreigners should be in India, especially those who act like barbarians. and who kill innocent people. You have no idea of what they've been doing in Manipur even in the past 3 years, two years, right? Since May 23 and you have no idea of their history before May 23, they have been fighting the Bangladeshes to create a separate country. They in the 1990s they fought the Nagal Nagas of Nagaland and Manipur. They tried to kill them all. Since the 19th century, they have been killing locals, indigenous people. You have no understanding but you want to pass judgment over what should be. I just don't get Indians. I I know it's not your fault. You you are taught nothing in the education system. The education system doesn't teach real history. But you have a responsibility to learn it on your own. If your school teacher did not teach you or if your textbook did not teach you, learn some history. Otherwise, you will be a person who is rudderless and you know you will support the wrong causes and that's not good for your country, is it? Radha says if Pakistan breaks up into pieces will terrorism die with it or will it take some new form? See terrorism terrorism needs funding. Terrorism needs a certain um support. It also needs fertile ground ideologically, culturally etc. So it is um to end terrorism you have to first of all end funding for terrorism and you also have to end the terrorists the people who have indulged in terrorism in the past you have to neutralize them eliminate them in whichever form you want to. So it it's it's not going to be easy even after Pakistan breaks up to completely stamp out terrorism. It's going to be a process. It'll take some time. The first thing you have to do is to dradicalize the population which generally takes 30 40 50 60 years. How did Pakistan get radicalized and become a terrorist nation? Started in the 1980s with the reforms in the education system implemented by Za Hak the military dictator of Pakistan who hanged Zulfikiar Ali Bhut. That guy reformed his education system and completely radicalized his people as as a result. And which is why I keep saying we need to reform our education system so as to you know have a higher quality population. Our education system is keeping our people illiterate and people then ask questions like why do you consider cookies outsiders or Bangladesh is outsiders because you don't learn your history. You don't learn what the national interest is. So uh coming back to Pakistan, if Pakistan breaks into pieces, it's going to be a long process of ending terrorism because look, the nation may break into four pieces, but the population is still the same. So it's going to be a long road ahead. It's going to be long road ahead. It it's just simply breaking Pakistan into pieces is not going to be the end of the story. We're going to have to identify all the terrorists. You can't allow them to reintegrate into into the population and claim to be nice people. The people who have been done doing all those things, things that that are unspeakable. You can't have them reintegrate into society. You have to permanently remove them from from society. It's going to be a long process. But the first step is the dismantling dismantle disintegration of Pakistan. Surita says, "Do you think it's time for a change in our nuclear doctrine to first use okay to have a stated no first use doctrine and then when if the situation arises you can do whatever you want. It's not like we have signed a contract that we are bound to uh abide by, right? Um it's I I personally am not in favor of a no first use doctrine. I personally believe that every nation should has the right to use arms that it has either as first use or second use. We we are not under any obligation to not use any weapon first. But uh as far as the doctrine is concerned maybe we can change it but there's no need to announce it. So we should keep some ambiguity in my opinion when it comes to our nuclear doctrine. Maybe it's okay to make the world believe that we have a no first use doctrine but when it suits our national interest if required we can use it first. So strategic ambiguity is always the best way to go about things. But yeah I agree with you. I don't agree I I am not in favor of a no first use doctrine an actual no first use doctrine. It's it's silly. And the same question was asked by Moonlight Sonata. I answered that question. Okay. Um Ashwin says why Turkey has this fondness which is increasing towards Pakistan. Is it because of hedgemony towards the Islamic world? If not Saudi Arabia, we would we would new world order. Okay. Um I'm kind of getting what you're asking. Why does Turkey love Pakistan so much? And what about the Islamic world? Who wants to be the leader of the Islamic world? There are s multiple contenders for the leadership of the Islamic world. Pakistan says that we are the only Islamic nuclear power. We have the Islamic nuclear bomb. So we should be the leader of the Islamic world. But they are a rag tag third world half- naked nation half starving half bankrupt. So because of that they they aren't in a position to be the leaders of the Islamic world. Which other contenders do we have? Saudi Arabia is the home of Islam. They they are the custodians of the great uh the holiest cities of Islam, right? Saudi Arabia and they are the richest of the Islamic nations and they are the birthplace of the prophet of Islam. So that makes Saudi Arabia the natural contender for being the the the leader of the Islamic world. Then there's another country called Turkey and they were the uh they they are the continuation so to say in a smaller form of the Ottoman Empire. Uh the last califf was Turkish. There the whole institution of the caliphate from 1456 onwards until 192021 around that time the caliphate lasted. It was all the califfs were Turks until that in during that time period. So uh they consider themselves to be the um natural contenders for being the leaders of the Islamic world. And the Saudis and the Turks don't get along. So there's that friction there. And then there's one more contender which is Iran, the Persian Empire. But the Persian Empire was not Islamic, right? But uh Iran also has um these imperial ambitions because they used to be an empire in the past. Uh but they are a different kind of Islamic nation. Half their population probably doesn't practice Islam anymore. Um, Islam is not their ancestral religion. Um, it's kind of a situation like India actually, but India never got converted fully like like Iran did. And Iran practices Shia Islam which is at loggerheads with all other forms of all the other nations which we mentioned which practice Sunni Islam. So there's that Islamic schism, right? The Shia Sunni schism and all that. So that's the situation when it comes to the leadership of the Islamic world. So there's no clear leader right now. probably the clearest contender is Saudi Arabia at this point in time and so on. So why does Turkey have this fondness for Pakistan? I discussed this some time ago. Um because they are very similar nations. Both nations don't have a history. They have a criminal record and u Turkey um knows that Pakistan doesn't really have the the credentials for being the leader of the Islamic world. And they also know that the Pakistanis worship Turkey these days like they used to worship the Arabs in the past. Um and they imagine the Pakistanis that they are descendants of Turks who ruled over the subcontinent and so on. So Turkey kind of leverages that and they hopefully want to uh tap into some of the nuclear technology in the future if if possible and so on. Um and there is this common shared hatred for polytheism which is us. So that is another you know factor that causes this convergence especially when it comes to India um and so on. So these are the reasons why Pakistan and Turkey have this convergence. Okay. Um so says will a nuclear war happen? No it won't happen. Don't worry. Why are the attacks from Pakistan to Indian cities made in the night? because it's harder to defend in the night. Traditionally, it's dark. So, it's it's harder. There's a little extra amount of of of difficulty. Maybe look, in today's day and age, it doesn't matter whether it's day or night. Your instruments will tell you everything. Your technology will be able to shoot down things in complete total darkness if you need to. But it it adds a little extra layer of difficulty. That's why you typically do things in the middle of the night like 2:00 a.m. or if you want to invade a neighboring country, you do you do the first attack at 5:00 a.m. or something or 4:00 a.m. before anyone wakes up the you know the deepest time of sleep and all that. So that's why generally it's done in the in the dead of night. So once darkness falls they start their their nefarious activity and that's I believe what's happening right now in Jammu. Air raid sirens in Jammu. Okay. Ruvid says why is the world's media not covering this war India Pakistan like the Israel Hamas war or the Russia Ukraine war you see it's because the west seems to believe that their problems are the world's problems but the world's problems are not their problems they think that the world is centered around them and the things that they are obsessed with they will cover 24 by7 Israel Hamas it's not even a it's not even contest. Hamas is no match for Israel. But they will cover it constantly because they are obsessed with Israel because Israel has a hold over the West. Yeah, Israel does have a hold over the West. So that's why they are obsessed with that particular conflict, Israel Hamas War. Every single media uh every single media outlet will cover it half the time, half the day, the Israel Hamas war. But this war India, Pakistan, no one's talking about it outside of India, outside of the subcontinent. So it's because they have this they they have this delusional view of the world that the their problems are the world's problems. Their obsessions should be the world's obsessions while the world's problems don't matter to them. And that situation is changing because the world is changing. And in a in a couple of decades, Europe is going to be the backwater of the world. Yeah. Okay. Um, King Doop is saying Pakistan is doing exactly what Hamas did. They're trying to create a narrative and they're trying to play victim and they're trying to paint India as the villain, especially on Tik Tok. How should we tackle this and win the narrative war? So, we have a population of 1.4 billion people. We are also all over social media. take some time out every day to remind the world that this is a nation that created the Taliban. This is the nation that sheltered Osama bin Laden for a decade. This is the nation that produced people who flew aircraft into the World Trade Center buildings in New York City. This is a nation that produced people who hijack aircraft uh like the like like the Indian Airlines aircraft uh IC7 whatever it was. This is a nation that produced people that carried out the Mumbai terror attack Ajal Kasab and so on. This is the nation that produced people who cut off the head of the American Jewish journalist Daniel Pearl and so on. Remind the world constantly of these facts. Start with the Osama bin Laden fact. Yes, Pakistan is a very peaceful country says Osama. I lived peacefully there for a decade. Remind the world every day every Indian can be a warrior on social media for the cause of the motherland. Right? If all Indians spend like each if each Indian spends just 5 minutes a day doing this, imagine what happens to Pakistani propaganda. Don't fight Pakistanis. Just put out facts every day. remind the world once a day each Indian that Pakistan is the nation that sheltered Osama bin Laden and created the Taliban and killed Daniel Pearl and whatnot. Okay, you do that the propaganda will be destroyed. Okay, that's how you tackle this and win the narrative war. That what that's what each citizen can do for India. What the government needs to do is to win this war. Okay. Okay. Sam Raman says Pakistan is Pakistan sending swarms of low coast drones to Jammu Patango Jamir to deplete our air defense before launching missiles. Using S400s for cheap drones is super costly. J Hind we are not using S400s for cheap drones. We have a multi-layered air defense system. Some of these drones we are bringing them down using non-kinetic means without hitting them with anything. Sounds like black magic. Maybe it is black magic. There are ways of doing it. Many of these drones are being brought down untouched. Okay. And some of them we are taking them out with Akash surfaceto-air missiles. The Akash surfaceto-air missile we have in very large quantities and we make it at home. We don't import it from somewhere. So Mr. Modi will say, "Okay, call up. I need 10,000 more. Can I have them in a week's time?" What? You know that's how it is. So we are not going to run out of anything. Our air defenses won't be depleted. We also have other air defense systems which I will not name here. The S400 is not being used for cheap drones. It's hardly been used. It has allegedly been used three times only thus far to allegedly perhaps bring down something larger. The S400 is for larger targets. It's not for drones, cheap drones. All right. So don't worry we are covered we we are well prepared. Mur Muri Krishna says what's the advantage of having a cricket stadium? I I think you'll have to ask somebody else maybe in the armed forces why did you choose the cricket stadium in Ral Pendi? Look first of all it uh did not kill any civilian. Um I I don't know. I I I would I will choose not to speculate about why we hate a cricket stadium, but yeah. So apparently the there's some Pakistani version of the IPL that exists apparently and uh it's called the Pakistan Super League or PSL or something and some lowquality cricketers play there apparently who can't play the IPL were not good enough to play the IPL. So apparently that Pakistan league is happening and we hit the stadium and now the Pakistanis have decided to possibly take the league out of Pakistan maybe play in the UAE but apparently the UAE's cricket board has said that we you are not welcome here. So I'm not sure where they will play now. Maldives, Bangladesh, not sure whatever. Apparently even the IPL our IPL has been postponed by a week or something. So yeah, that's uh what happens when you're at war. Okay. Okay. I've already taken the nuclear doctrine question. So, let's take some other questions. Um uh let us see. Let us see. Okay. This is a good question. Daksha G says, "Will the Indian economy have an impact? Will there be an impact on the Indian economy? Do you think Bajjasthan might get liberated if this war lasts for more than 10 days? Do you think it's the end of the temporary nation? If this war lasts 14 days, it's the end of the temporal edition. Pakistan is less than two weeks away from collapse. If it doesn't stop what it's doing and it is in no position to stop what it's doing. So I think we are staring at the end of Pakistan in within the next two weeks. Will there be an impact on the Indian economy? If the war lasts 3 months, there could be an impact. But if it ends within two weeks, it's over. It's completely over and there won't be any more Pakistan. So yes, Balojasthan might get liberated in the next 14 days maximum. Pakistan may cease to exist in the next 14 days and once that exists there is no question of instability in India. So the economy is completely fine. But if the war lasts long and drags on like what happened in Ukraine, there could be an impact the Indian economy. So Mr. Modi will ensure it doesn't go in that direction. Whatever happens will be over in the next 2 to 14 days. Okay, let's take some more questions. Today I'm going to extend this session. It's already 2 hours 18 minutes. I'll take it further for today. I'll end at the time I usually end the live stream on regular days. A potato praiser says there's a two-month night curfew near India Bangladesh border on our side. Is it? Is Bangladesh cooking something? I am not aware of this. This is news to me. I've not uh I've not heard of this before. Um so yeah, in case it's true, then maybe we are taking precautions because Bangladesh is no longer a friendly nation, right? After the uh regime change, there was done recently. So yeah. Um Tanesh Pande says our navy is very strong compared to 1971. We're the sixth strongest navy in the world and they are not the Pakistanis are not even in the top 20. If we do attack Karachi port, it will be a one-sided affair. I think do do you also think that I think if we attack Karachi port Karachi will be flattened so it's up to us whether do we do it or not and we don't have to go to Karachi to do it that's the thing we can do it from way far away from Karachi we can do it from 500 km away from Karachi and we can completely flatten Karachi if we want so if we attack Karachi port if we do decide to do it it will be a completely one-sided affair Pakistan won't stand a chance Karachi won't stand a chance the question is do If you want to do it, if you want to take the enemy out, you can do it without destroying the enemy. Look, our enemy is not the Pakistani people, right? They hate us. We know that. Most of them, not all. Most of them hate us. But uh look, we don't want to attack civilians. Uh as far as possible, if you want to take a country, you take it as intact as possible. So I don't think this is the time to attack Karachi port. And if we do that, then our enemies can paint us as as cruel people, as aggressors. and and we don't want that. So maybe not not a good time to do that to Pakistan to Karachi. Uh Ainand Ainand Sen says uh if you were the Pakistani prime minister, what step would you realistically take to bring peace to your people, would you further escalate or initiate diplomatic discussions with India? If I was the prime minister of Pakistan, I would beg the military to talk to India and stop the war. Because if I'm the prime minister of Pakistan, I don't have any power. Please understand this first of all my dear viewers. The Pakistani prime minister is a powerless entity. The Pakistani prime minister does not decide what happens to his country or her country. Only one female minis. So the Pakistani prime minister is a puppet just like Muhammad Yunus. Their their rule is to divert attention from where the real power lies. It is to make big noises and be visible while the real power the military does whatever it wants in the background. That's the deal. So if I am the prime minister of Pakistan, I have no power. There's nothing I can do. If I was the dictator of Pakistan, if I was aim, what would I do realistically? I would immediately seize and stop what I am doing. I would beg for forgiveness of the people of Pakistan. I would dismantle the terror factories. If Pakistan wants realistic peace with India, the first thing they have to do is to dismantle the terrorism factories and to bring all the terrorists to justice to hand over the terrorists that have done per perpetrated massacres on Indians. Zaki Rahman Lakmi um um these names are very strange. Dawud Ibrahim and what what other names do we have? Um Masoud, Masud Azar and so on. These individuals have to be handed over to India. I'm sure I'm missing a few names. Um but yeah, that's what Pakistan needs to do. Dismantle the terror factory. Dismantle the terror network. Bring all the terrorists to justice. Hand over the wanted terrorists to India. Step down from the role of dictator. Let there be a genuine democracy in Pakistan. In that case, I have no issue with the existence of Pakistan the way it is. You know, stop oppressing the people of Balojasthan. Let the people of Kar Pakuno go back to Afghanistan. Give P back to India. You you do these things then there's no issue between India and Pakistan. Give up terrorism as a state policy. But they can't do it. So that's why they have that's why they are in the position they are today. DIC Shrian says, "Do you think somebody will bail out Pakistan at the end?" Like it has happened multiple times in the past. Now that's a good question. The first questions we question we have to ask ourselves is this. Which nations are potentially in a position to be able to bail out Pakistan? Which nations have the capability to bail out Pakistan from the position it is in right now? Right now P Pakistan is in a terrible position. Okay. It's it's it's India has a choke hold on Pakistan right now. In MMA you have a choke hold a rear naked choke. You're done. That's the position Pakistan is in right now. So first of all the question is which nations can realistically extricate Pakistan from this position? One nation that immediately comes to mind is the US. They can prevent Pakistan from being destroyed right now if they want to. They can step in. They can force India to stop if they want the Americans. But what did JD Vance say yesterday? The vice president of the US, he said this is none of our business. The IndiaPakistan war, it's none of our business and we need to stay out of it. He has made it very clear the Americans will not intervene this time. It essentially is a green light to India. Deal with Pakistan. do whatever you want finish it off just ensure the matter doesn't spill beyond the Indian subcontinent that's it that is a green light to India this is the chance we have been waiting for so America is not going to step in who else can step in who else exists that is strong enough to step in China now is China in a position where they can force India to stop from what we are doing let's say we are about to dismantle Pakistan into four pieces Are the Chinese in a position to force us? The Americans can force us through economic means by just threatening sanctions if they want, but they don't want to do it and they're not going to do it. Can the Chinese impose sanctions on India? I don't think so. The only thing the Chinese can threaten India with is military action. Now, is China in a position to start military action with a nation like India? We are not as powerful as China. China is three and a half times more powerful than us. But China is under siege from the US right now. And the Americans are waiting for China to make a stupid move somewhere. If China starts military action against India, it'll be a huge mistake for them. The Americans are waiting for a mistake from China and the Americans will have to come to India's side this time because they need India on their side against China. And the Chinese economy may suffer tremendous losses if they indulge in a war, engage in a war with India because we are we may not be that powerful but we can certainly inflict damage and we have some of the world's deadliest missiles. So um doesn't make sense for China to start a war with India just to bail Pakistan out. So then instead of starting a war with India, can they send supplies to Pakistan so that Pakistan stays afloat? Can they send those supplies in such quantities at this time? Large quantities. Pakistan is running out of ammunition of arms, ammunition and all that. They'll have to send tremendous amounts of ammunition. When you are at war with a country like India, if you're Pakistan, you're going to be spending incredible amounts of ammunitions. ammunition, bullets, shells, rockets, drones, all these little things every day, right? You're going to need tremendous quantities of this. Otherwise, you're done. Can China supply all that to Pakistan? I don't think they can. They can send some, but not a lot. Who else? Turkey. Turkey sent some drones. They they wasted 400 to 500 yesterday. The Pakistanis. Pakistan is in a deep deep situ bad spot right now. It's it's difficult for the Chinese even if they want to to bail Pakistan out right now. This is the opportunity that India has needed has been waiting for for the past 80 years. So the ball essentially is in Pakistan's court. They need to step step back immediately otherwise two weeks maximum and they're done. It's over. Cynical says you mentioned how absorbing Pakistan occupied Kashmir can change our demographics forever and may affect our national security. How do you think this can play out realistically or when it can happen? Look P can come back in two weeks time maximum. Okay. But the question you're raising is a good question because I've mentioned this before. The people of PUK they have been essentially part of Pakistan for the past 70 80 years and they probably identify as Pakistanis and religiously they are they of the Pakistani persuasion aren't they? Uh and and they probably all will have a tremendous amount of hatred for India because of various reasons. Now, if you take that territory and you absorb those people into your population, it'll be a culture shock for both sides. It'll be a culture shock for both sides. But I'm sure they can adapt. But will that deep rooted hatred disappear? That's the question. But we obviously have Pakistanis living in India. We've had Pakistanis, tens of thousands of Pakistanis living illegally in India. Pakistani women married to Indian citizens for decades. It worked, right? So if you want it to work that way, it'll work. Otherwise, we'll have to decide what to do and how to deal with the situation, right? We have a 100 million Bangladeshes living in India. They all hate us, but they're living among us. Work somehow in India. Everything we make it work. What do we call it? Jard. So we may even make this work. P absorbed into India and u the people of P becoming Indian citizens. It will cause problems for a while. A while as in like two three generations. Okay. I've already discussed the the Chinese air defenses a lot. So let's take some other questions. Uh Shriara Moli Moli Tadi Nada says Iran has been offering to mediate during this particular conflict the India Pakistan war fifth war. Is India is Iran a good actor or a bad actor? Look, Iran is our friend. We we should look at Iran as as our friend. We have no no um issues with Iran. Uh the Iranian foreign minister recently said that you know Pakistan and India are both brotherly countries for us. We are neighbors. We have always been neighbors and so on. So Iran would like to offer its good offices to India and Pakistan and act as a mediator and you know and hopefully bring this conflict to an end. And then the Iranian Iranian foreign minister came to India. I think he was in India yesterday or maybe today. I'm not sure. So look uh Mr. Foreign Minister is is very welcome to come to India. We will offer him the best of our hospitality, the warmest welcome. But when it comes to mediating between India and Pakistan, uh Iran now is not the time, right? This is going to end the way it ends. uh we appreciate Iran's friendship and partnership and all that and we'll work together with Iran but uh this this attempt to mediate is is you know I'm sure it is it comes from a good place and they want to see peace between India and Pakistan because we are all brotherly nations which we are which we are but look this is the wrong time to do that wait for two weeks then try to mediate if there is any Pakistan left but we appreciate Iran's offer and Iran's Iran's friendship for sure. Okay. What do we have? Um let us see. Let us see. Let's see. Okay. We have discussed the Chinese air defense system adn noseam. Um okay. Red devil says you talk of deportation of Bangladesh who came during 1971 and their children. Does this also include the Bengali Hindus who are basically escaping a genocide? No, it does not include Bengali Hindus who escaped the genocide. They are welcome to stay here forever. I am talking about the Bangladeshes who infiltrated into India after Bangladesh became a separate country, who infiltrated into India illegally by crossing the borders. That's what I am talking about. The Bengali Hindus who fled from Bangladesh fleeing for their lives in 1971 who settled in India. They are our people. They are welcome to be here forever. The Bangladeshi infiltrators I have an issue with is the ones who infiltrated into India illegally after 71. Not during the 71 conflict. 71 war. Not them. Not them. I have an issue with the illegal infiltrators who came after 71. That's the issue. They are the ones who are illegally here. The Bangladeshi Hindus who came in, we accepted them as refugees and we allowed them to become citizens. That happened legally as a matter of state policy. I have no issue with those people. I have an issue with the illegals who came in later. They are the ones who are dangerous to us. Okay. Okay, Mahesha says, "Is it possible to neutralize a nuclear attack?" So, what does a nuclear attack look like? A nuclear attack is an attack that involves a nuclear weapon. A nuclear weapon is not very large. I assure you, uh, how much plutonium do you need for a nuclear weapon? Look, I'll give you a ballpark figure. 2 to three kilos. 2 to three kilos of pluton plutonium. And plutonium is a very dense metal. 2 to three kilos of plutonium is like this much. This much physically maybe smaller than that. 2 to three kilos. It's so dense that a very small quantity weighs 2 3 kilos. If you're talking about uranium you may need roughly very rough ballpark figure let's say 10 kilos to have a kiloton kind of weapon. you know 10 20 kilo Hiroshima type weapon if you have good technology you can make do with 10 15 kilos of uranium or maybe two to five kilos of plutonium that's the nuclear uh file material and the warhead itself is not going to be very large you can essentially have a bomb in a suitcase if it's [Music] plutonium so that's the warhead that's the deliverable that needs to be sent to the location the package that needs to delivered to the location. So you need a delivery mechanism for that which is typically a missile or it is dropped as a bomb from an aircraft. Now today if the Pakistanis want to send an aircraft to drop a bomb on an Indian city that aircraft will be wiped out s long before it reaches an Indian city because our air defenses are are frighteningly good these days. So they have two ways of doing it. Either by launching a ballistic missile or a cruise missile or an aircraft launched missile, air launched missile. Three options. Do the Pakistani F-16s have the capability to to launch missiles that can deliver nuclear warheads? I'm not sure. Let's assume they do. So we need to have the capacity to take out those rockets before they reach the destination. And uh if it's a ballistic missile, we need to be able to shoot down ballistic missiles, which probably we can. If it's cruise missiles, that's more difficult because cruise missiles can fly low just like aircraft and skim over the surface. In which case, you have to be super vig v vigilant. So, it's definitely possible to neutralize a nuclear attack. The Pakistan Pakistanis have been launching missiles and drones the past 48 hours at us. They have tried their best to hit more than 20 25 Indian cities thus far and they have failed every single time. So we have excellent air defenses. They haven't used ballistic missiles yet. If they launch a ballistic missile, I think before the missile reaches India, Pakistan will be flattened because ballistic missiles are a red line. Uh so my answer is that it's definitely very possible to neutralize a nuclear attack. See, if there's a ballistic missile incoming, then we have multiple ways of killing it. One is the S400 system that probably can take out ballistic missiles, especially short and medium-range missiles. The other one is the Pritski air defense system, which has a two-stage system. There's a rocket that takes out the missile outside the atmosphere. It's an exo atmospheric interception. So, it intercepts the incoming missile outside of the atmosphere more than 100 km above the surface of the Earth. If that interception fails, there's a second rocket that that goes up which takes out the incoming missile about 40 kilometers above the surface of the earth. That is endoat atmospheric interception. So if one fails, the other one will take it out. And these are very accurate missiles. So if there's an nuclear missile coming in, a missile with a nuclear payload coming in, if you take it out outside of the atmosphere, then even if the warhead falls down, it it will probably be destroyed, right before it reaches the earth. And yeah, it can cause uranium contamination or whatever, but that is not as bad as a nuclear detonation. Even if the warhead is destroyed 40 kilometers or 20 kilometers above the surface of the Earth, it won't result in a nuclear explosion. Right. So it's definitely very possible to neutralize a nuclear attack very much so especially when you have good air defense systems and these days we do have very good air defense systems. Remember in 2019 or whichever year it was we carried out an anti-satellite test ASAT test. So, we have a kill vehicle, a rocket, um, a missile which can take out satellites outside of the Earth's or atmosphere at a at an altitude of between 200 to 1,000 km above the Earth's surface. And typically, the satellites that travel at about 10 kilometers per second. 10 km/ second is faster than a bullet. And we can take a satellite out at that speed at that height. So that I assure you can also take out an incoming ballistic missile. So worry not my friends worry not. Geopolitical dub says are we handling the information warfare better this time? I think we are handling it much better than 2019. when we did Bala court you know the Pakistani information warf had actually proved to be superior they claimed that they took out I don't know how many Indian aircraft at least to this end and uh they have been able to convince the world that we did not shoot down one of their F-16s right they have been able to push that narrative and make that narrative win in 2019 and uh when the surgical strikes happened they said what surgical strikes nothing happened there's no evidence this time we have done things in such a way that they can't deny anything. We did multiple strikes on each terror terrorist building, headquarters, whatever. And we did not nearly strike those things multiple times. We sent drones to to film everything. And we've put all the footage out in the public domain. And then after the Pakistanis tried to tried to strike back, the next day we did daylight strikes all across Pakistan in which the Pakistanis actually filmed the drones coming down and slamming into Pakistani infrastructure. There were missile strikes at night that were filmed. So it has been very public this time. It is very clear to everybody including Pakistanis that India is winning this and India has hit Pakistan struck Pakistan at will multiple times and the Pakistanis haven't been able to hit back. The Pakistanis have claimed that what they've taken out five Indian fighter planes. Have they shown a single piece of evidence? Do you think you can hide such evidence in today's day and age? Can you? It's very hard. Uh so this time India has been very well prepared and we are definitely winning the information warfare and even in the western media you know we seem to have we seem to have allies this time most of the western media is very anti-India even today. So the best they can do right now is to not cover the matter. They're staying they're not covering the IndiaPakistan war right now because India is winning very very very obviously winning what's happening thus far. But there are some channels in which you have uh certain journalists who are absolutely roasting the the the Pakistanis. There's this lady called Yalda Hakeim who who's of Afghan origin. She works for Sky Sky News or something. I mean every day the new video clip of our comes out you know roasting some Pakistani taking some Pakistani diplomat or foreign minister or defense minister whoever it is to the absolute cleaners. She's doing a great job that lady. So overall this time the Pakistanis aren't winning the information warfare thing and there are certain uh US academics there's this professor of political science some insign insignificant fellow who's married to a Pakistani woman who is trying to you know take the Pakistani side and make it look like India is not doing well not working this time it's not working so it's a much improved um information warfare performance from India this time around much improved much better and we are clearly winning the the warfare this time okay we have already dealt with wartime blackouts I already took the question so let's take some other questions um Sunumi says yes Yaldahhim is a gem she certainly is she's doing a tremendous job of being an ally of India Okay. Grateful black says India should give Kashmir back to Pakistan for peace. Uh let me tell you something, Mr. Grateful Black. India should end Pakistan's existence for peace. And that's what's going to happen. It's happening in real time right now. Wait, you must be a Pakistani. I I I feel sorry for you. I have nothing against the citizens of Pakistan. They're human beings just like us. They are they are our relatives. You people are our blood. We're the same people. But blood doesn't matter because only only culture matters. You you may be our our blood but you you want us dead, right? Pakistan is most of you at least. I feel sorry for you but and the best thing for you is the end of Pakistan. The bulcanization of Pakistan which is about to happen. If Pakistan continues the way it's continuing, it's it's trying to hit Jammu and whatnot right now. Pakistan will be balconized in the next 14 days maximum. Then try to get Kashmir. What Kashmir? Okay, we've discussed enough nuclear missiles. Ashish Singh says what will Pakistan do now? Is there not able to to penetrate the Akash air defense system? Yeah, they have failed miserably at at trying to penetrate the air defense system that we have multi-layered air defense system which of which the Akash is the primary component as far as we can understand thus far and it's been an absolute superstar performance by the Akash air defense system. The Pakistanis are unable to penetrate. They're unable to hit a single Indian target. They've been trying for the past 48 hours. Hundreds of drones they've launched. Not worked, right? What do they do now? Well, if it doesn't work, what do you do? You fall back on your tried and trusted weapon of terrorism. So, they'll try and launch terror strikes on India. Maybe by trying to to to push terrorists across the border. It's already been tried last night and a whole bunch of terrorists were taken out by the BSF last night who were trying to cross over into the Indian uh across the border into the Indian territory and they could try and uh activate sleeper cells from inside India whe whether it is Rohingyas or Bangladeshies or or Pakistanis or cookies or whatever and they could do terror strikes in India on Indian cities that's always a possibility. So India is going to be have to going to have to be on high alert. These are the options they have. Otherwise, they can try more dangerous options, more dangerous for them. Try cruise missiles or something. If they try such more dangerous weapons, you know, it's going to come back to them like in in twice the number in twice the twice twice the magnitude. So the best thing Pakistan can do at this point in time if they want to continue to exist as a nation is to step down immediately. That's the first step. Second, dismantle your terrorist infrastructure because just stepping down is not going to be enough anymore. Just stepping down is not going to be enough. You have to dismantle your terrorists infrastructure. You have to hand over the wanted terrorists to India. All that otherwise you're done Pakistan. You're done. Okay. N says, "Do you think Pakistan will deescalate the issue or try to escalate this in order to get some financial aid from the world? Right now the question is no longer of financial aid. The question is the question from the military perspective because it's the military that that owns Pakistan. It's the it's Pakistan is a military dictatorship. Prime Minister is just for show. It's a puppet." Right? From the military perspective, I say this over and over again, it's a question of survival. Survival. Now, they have sold the Pakistani public this this story that we are responsible. We we guarantee the existence of Pakistan because our great existential threat to the east is India and only the Pakistani military stands between India and complete destruction of Pakistan. And the social contract you have in Pakistan is that you allow the military to rule over the country as complete dictators. In exchange for that, the military saves us from India when required. That's the social contract. So, so the entire legitimacy of the Pakistani military hinges on Pakistan being a on the military proving itself to be able to defend the country against India and defend itself against India. In the past 48 48 50 hours, they have failed miserably at that. They have not been able to prevent India from striking at will and they have been completely miserably been unable to hit India at all. So the military if this continues the people will rise up against the military. That's what happens in police states in dictatorships when the legitimacy goes away. The people rise up because they have been oppressed. They have been tolerating the oppression for decades just because of the social contract that the military can oppress us but at least it will save us from India and they hate India. That's why they tolerate the military. So now that the military has been shown to be a failure, the Pakistani people in the next few days will rise up against the military. Yesterday there were all these rallies in Pakistan asking for the um release of Imran Khan from from from prison. Right? So it's already you're already seeing this on the streets of Pakistan to some extent then Balojasthan will rise up then Kaibar will rise up and so on. So, so the military has no choice but to keep on escalating, but to keep on trying to escalate otherwise their own people will eat them alive. You understand? There's going to be riots. The riots will be directed at the military. So, Pakistan is caught in a terrible place. The military of Pakistan is a caught is caught in a terrible place. They have no choice but to try and escalate further. If they step back then they have to step down also that's the issue right and they won't step down excuse meager says once Pakistan breaks up what's next for India internal issues like illegal immigrants and sleeper sales might escalate within the public what should how should India tackle that once Pakistan breaks up India is going to have its hands full dealing with Pakistan dealing with the break up of Pakistan with these new countries coming up Balojasthan Sinduh and so on dealing with Kyber Pakun who has integration with Afghanistan dealing with what's left of Punjab dealing with the reintegration of Pakistan okay Jammu Kashmir Gilgit Baltistan all of that is going to be a huge process and there's going to be possible problems within India because of the millions of illegal immigrants which we have tolerated for decades so it's going to be a difficult road forward But you progress only through difficulties, right? You get a go towards a better future only by navigating difficulties. And if you want to have a better future in which Pakistan is no longer a threat, then you have to go through this phase. So we will have to go through it. Arnab Malik says people are critically injured in Punjab. Okay, we'll see about that and if it's true, it's very unfortunate and the Pakistan will pay the price for that if they have done that. Rug says why would Aim Moner, the chief of Pakistan's military, why would he attend the funeral of a known global terrorist makes no sense because now the fig leaf of plausible deniability is gone. Pakistan has now openly admitted that they are a terrorist nation. Their defense minister went on Sky News was it with Yaldah Haken? I think he went on Sky News at least twice at least he he gave at least two interviews to Western media Pakistan defense minister in which he stated very clearly very explicitly that Pakistan has been doing the dirty work for the west for decades for the US for the UK and for the west dirty work of terrorism and he said that if we had not been doing this for the west then we would have had a spotless record and nobody would be able to point fingers at us and call us terrorists. He admitted this at least twice in two different interviews. So it's open now. And then even Bilawal Bhau the son of Benazar BH who seems to have some official position in the government. He also said the same thing that we have served as terrorist. We have served as served as terrorist mercenaries for the US and for the west. So this happens only when your master has given you has served you the divorce papers. Then you can say bad things about your master. Right? So now it's open. It's clear that Pakistan has openly admitted that they have been yes a terrorist nation. They it's been part of their their state policy. Terrorism is is a is a policy of their state. Now that it's in the open, what difference does it make if Aim Munir attends the funeral of terrorists, right? So after the Indian strikes on terrorist infrastructure apparently more than a 100 terrorists died including the brother of um these names I just don't remember these names foreign names right not our names um Hafi sed aar masudazar one of these fellows one of the the brothers of one of these fellows the the brother of one of these fellows who was involved in the murder of Daniel Pearl so we India brought justice to Daniel Pearl's family after decades after he was killed. The Americans didn't bring justice to Daniel Pur's family. We did it right. So we killed more than 100 terrorists apparently and the Pakistani military gave these terrorists a state funeral with full military honors and highranking Pakistani military officials including apparently Asim Munir attended this funeral. So now it is open in front of the world that the Pakistani military, the Pakistani ISI and the Pakistani terrorist infrastructure they are one and the same. They are the same entity. This is the proof that the world needs to see. It's the end of the story. There's no more proving to be no more proof to be given. It's open. They are no longer hiding it. So now if somebody asks India what's the evidence Pakistan is a Pakistan is a terrorist nation I mean what more evidence do this people want right okay um Karan Alawad says according to you what should India not do in this war India should not be hasty give yourself two weeks take it easy next 2 three days try to make next two three days tell the world we are trying to deescalate. We are giving Pakistan the option to step back. We know the Pakistanis cannot step back. We know the Pakistani military has no choice but to keep on trying to hit India. But we should not hit any more targets in Pakistan the next two three days. So the world can so the world should be able to see we gave them a chance. Next three days we should do this. So the next 3 days the Indian media will be very unhappy that we are not hitting Pakistan then or or before depending on how Pakistan behaves. Then you go for the kill because then by the time Pakistan will be running out of ammunition and munitions and the pressure will be very high on the Pakistani military. Um but if they hit some Indian city or do something terrible before that then we can wipe them out with full impunity. So it will depend on their actions. But if things continue as they are right now, it becomes kind of a new normal. Then we wait for 3 4 days before taking the next step and the next step eventually is going to be a pulse pause thing whenever it happens. Make a sudden quick move into Pakistan 30 40 50 km and stop and then it'll be a further humiliation for the Pakistan military and then hopefully the people rise up and throw them out otherwise we can engineer it. So it's going to be a matter of a couple of weeks if the Pakistani military continues the way it is doing right now. The only thing that can save Pakistan at this point in time is if they step down completely immediately. That's the only way Pakistan survives the next two weeks. Otherwise it's done. All right. Rash God says what would Janeka do in the situation? I just what I just said that's what he would do. Uh, okay. Once again, S400, it's not the S400 that's being used. Uh, Anand Chandak says, "Why are my comments not getting posted?" Well, it just got posted, that's why I took it. So, it's not like that. Uh, okay. Some new questions, please. Let's uh about the situation. Apurva says, "Should India reintegrate Balojasthan and or Synind into India or make it a proxy? What's the feasibility of a naval blockade? A naval blockhead is is very feasible. We can do that especially using submarines which are way more dangerous than surface vessels. A naval blockade is very feasible if we need to do it. Should we reintegrate Baljasthan and or Sind into India? Not at this time. Not at this time. They are a very radicalized population and if we hastily reintegrate them into India then it'll cause lots of problems. I think we have to give ourselves a timeline of maybe 50 years for the reintegration of the entire subcontinent once Pakistan breaks up. So there has to be a cooling down phase. Um it's not like the case of Bangladesh right in 71 Bangladesh had been out of India for just 24 years and there was no radicalization as such in in the population of Bangladesh. Today's Bangladeshi population is super radicalized and that happened after 71 after their independence. So in 71 it made sense for India to reintegrate Bangladesh immediately after just 24 years out outside of India. But Balojasthan Sind have been out of India for almost 80 years. They're culturally very different now. Doesn't make sense for us to reintegrate them immediately into India. We need to let's say shepherd them over the next few years or decades. We have to dradicalize them through reforms of the education system and other means. So it doesn't make sense for us to reintegrate them immediately if if and when Pakistan breaks up. Recent reports say that a drone fell into a house in Lakhanur injuring people. Will that boost India's further action? Okay, that's unfortunate if it's if it's happened. But you know um yeah, if if this has happened and if people have been injured and if property has been damaged or destroyed, Pakistan will pay for it. So we have to be patient for a few days and then the end game starts if Pakistan doesn't step down. Okay. What else? What's the future of Pakistan? Look, Adita says, "What's the future of P?" Uh, will will it? I think P will be merged into India once Pakistan breaks up pretty soon. I'm pretty sure about that. Not Balojasthan, not Sinda, not North Punjab, Pakistan and Punjab. Definitely not Ky, Pakuna, but P and Gilgit Baltistan will be reintegrated. Um, who has declared a full-blown war? Have they declared the war? Pakistan. Okay. In the past 2 hours, 3 hours, I'm not sure. But probably PJK and Gilgit Baltistan will be reintegrated. We'll see about that. White House has just said that the president wants it to to deescalate. Just 5 minutes back. Well, obviously Donald Trump has to say these things that we want this to deescalate. We don't want the situation to to worsen. He has to say these things. It's all right. It's all right. We also want it to deescalate. Please Pakistan, stand down. Stop this nonsense. Stop lobbing missiles and rockets and drones at our civilians. Stand down immediately. We'll deescalate. You You have to take the step. We aren't the aggressors. Who's lobbing drones and missiles and rockets at at whom right now? Who is doing the air defense? Who is doing the offense? The Pakistanis are doing the offense. We are doing air defense. So if somebody has to deescalate it, it has to start with Pakistan. The problem is Pakistan can't deescalate. That's the situation they are in right. Rahul Shindai says what's the role of drones in this war and how powerful is India's drone system? You know the past two years I've been seeing look at what happened in Azarbaijan the Armenia Azarbaijan war of 2020. Look at what's happening in the Ukraine battlefield. Drones, loitering munitions, suicide drones, kamicazizer drones, AI, all of this is part of the 21st century warfare. India should not be left behind. India's military needs to integrate these things into its warf fighting u scenarios and techniques and see today see today what happens what's happening we use drones to to hit Pakistan and we have excellent superb anti- drone anti-missile anti- everything systems so clearly those of us who sit in sofas and talk about things we don't know what the Indian armed forces are actually doing so kudos to the Indian armed forces kudos to in government. We have not been left behind in the 20th century way of doing war. We are fighting a 21st century war here. Outstanding. Outstanding. I'm so pleased. I'm so pleased. So yeah, drones have a very big role in this and I really appreciate what the Indian armed forces are doing and what the government is doing by ensuring the armed forces have the right tools at their disposal to deal with Pakistan and whoever else. Is Pakistan breaking up guaranteed if a in case a war happens sir a war is happening right now? We are at a state of war. It may not have been declared officially but we are in a state of war and Pakistan if it doesn't step back right now immediately. If this continues for two weeks it's breaking up is guaranteed. Guaranteed. Okay. Um let's see what what what else do we have? Um Aditya Bali says what's your opinion on the alleged news that Balojasthan declared independence. Look people on social media will say we have declared independence and we we should support that but there is no entity like there is no actual entity called Baloistan. It's just people right see Pakistan is a nation whether you like it or not and they have a government. So when Pakistan says something it means the government said something but when you say that Balojasthan declared something there is no entity called Balojasthan today the chief minister of Balojasthan is a Pakistanis isn't he today so when you hear on social media Balojasthan is declaring independence that means various people from who belong to Balojasthan or Baloi are declaring their desire for independence or maybe the Balojasthan liberation army which is a freedom uh struggle organization maybe they have declared independence So that's what it means and we need to welcome this we need to encourage them and we need to if poss our government if possible if it's possible we need to support them in some way um through whatever way through maybe Afghanistan the Afghans are our friends right we have a very good understanding with Taliban maybe through Iran maybe not through Iran but definitely Afghanistan can help us out so um so yeah you see that on social media every day you see it right now I'm sure that somebody from Baluchasan is saying that we are independent from Pakistan So we Indians should support that and my opinion is that this needs to happen. The actual independence and and uh dissociation of Balojasthan from Pakistan needs to happen. Pawan HR education says what will happen when Indian army marches towards Islamabad and on the other hand Baljasthan declares independence and many activities happening. What will happen to nuclear weapons and all that? Look the way to disintegrate Pakistan is not for India to go to Islamabad. The way to have Pakistan disintegrate is to have this war continue longer so that the Pakistani munitions get depleted and and the Pakistani army is shown to be completely important ineffective to its people and then you the situation becomes ripe for a revolt from within Pakistan of the people who are tired of army operation. So we have to condition create those conditions and we have to encourage those conditions of Pakistan and Pakistan it's breakup has to happen from within inside from inside of Pakistan not with us marching to Islamabad we need to engineer this remotely that's what needs to happen and we can obviously take military action in strategic ways to surgically start splitting Pakistan into pieces And we do it without hurting the civilians as far as possible. Obviously, it's going to be very strategic. It has to be done very strategically. We don't march on Islamabad. We don't march on any major city. We do it in a such a way that it happens from inside by simply making the military completely ineffective, completely important, completely helpless and in such a position that they can't even withstand their own people's fury. That's what needs to happen. That's that's how you disintegrate Pakistan. Swapnil says good to see you Swapnil. Why was Cindi not split into two parts like Punjab and Bengal? Why so many Cindi Hindus live when so many Cindi Hindus live there? God knows so many Cindi Hindus were made homeless right after 1947 after partition. Um it it I think the decisions were m these decisions of what lines will be on the map and how they'll be uh split. These decisions were made by people who had no connection with India or who didn't care about India. Mainly it was Siril Radcliffe the British uh individual who arbitrarily drew lines on the map very very arbitrary lines. Why? Why? I mean if you look at uh Bangladesh, why is Silad part of Bangladesh? It was a Hindu majority region. Why was Chittagong Chagram part of Bangladesh? It should never have been part of Bangladesh and so on. So so many such injustices were done and they were done by the British and aided and abetted by our so-called freedom fighters and leaders of that time. You know that's how it happened. Ursa Miner says, "I live in Rome and I have friends from Pakistan. The narrative in their media then the narrative in their media hasn't recognized most attacks on their country and is extremely defensive. When do you think the true facts will come to light?" Yeah, the Pakistanis I I believe imposed a internet blackout in Pakistan yesterday. That's what I heard yesterday. Um so their media will spin a certain narrative. Their media obviously is beholden to the ISI military terrorism complex. So they have to keep on pushing the propaganda to their own people that we are winning. They'll do it as long as is as as is possible. So we're going to have to break it by creating facts on the ground by so the Indian government will have to do it. The Indian military will have to do it from far without putting too much boots too far into the ground. Um so yes their media narrative is very different from what's actually happening. Right? So the facts will come to light the longer this goes on. Right now it's just 48 plus maybe less slightly less than 72 hours into the war. Right? One week into the war it's going to be a different scenario. If it goes 2 weeks it's going to be endame for Pakistan. So by that time the media won't be able to hide what's really happening. So the longer this continues the harder it will be for their media to lie to their own people. And yeah that's just how it goes. It's it's often a war of narratives. All right. Um okay. Okay. Okay. Do we have any other question? Any other interesting questions? Amisha Misha says, "Are the Arab countries with us?" I assure you the Arab countries are with us. Um the major Arab countries. Saudi Arabia doesn't want anything to do with Pakistan. Pakistan used to be of use to them in the past. No longer the case. They rather very much would prefer to do business with India. We are on very good terms. You can it's unbelievable how much things have changed in the past 10 11 years with visav our relationship with the Gulf countries. We are on excellent terms with Saudi Arabia with the UAE uh with Oman and so on. Yeah. So the Arab countries are with us. I assure you about that they are with us and it's a great thing. AJ Pillah says I think Baljasthan after liberation will have border issues with Iran, Afghanistan and Punjab or Pakistan. Yeah, you know these once when new countries emerge out of out of old countries these issues happen. So we're going to have to be the mediator in this and ensure that things are done properly not unlike not like what happened in 1947 when arbitrary lines were drawn on the map. Right? So, we're going to have to ensure that everybody gets justice and nobody uh feels like, you know, they've been robbed of some territory or something. So, we're going to have to ensure that happens when it happens. Okay, I've taken I think most questions now. Uh geopolitical dub says will or should India continue to weaponize water or any other means to create panic in Pakistan? Look, if Pakistan disintegrates in the next two weeks as is very possible, then we don't then we no longer have to do anything about water because there's no Pakistan anymore. Then we are dealing with Punjab separately, Baloistan separately, Sinda separately. And we don't want to hurt the people, right? We don't want to hurt the people. This was about punishing the evil military ISI terrorist entity. It's not about hurting the people. We don't want to hurt the people. So if Pakistan disintegrates, end of story. we'll have new uh a new treaty with all these all these countries. But if uh yeah, so it it depends on how things go in the next two weeks. All right. Okay. So, I'm going to end today's live stream over here and we're going to do another live stream tomorrow in which I'll take some more questions from the comments and also some questions from the live chat. So, yeah, this was a very long live stream, 3 hours almost 10 minutes. So, thank you so much for the questions. It was really fun, very interactive and you all asked great questions live in front of us and yeah, let's continue this tomorrow. All right, I'm sure things will have changed to some extent tomorrow or not. We'll see. All right, thank you so much until then until tomorrow. Take care and I'll see you very soon. Thank you. Bye-bye.