Heat. Heat. Heat. Hello, good evening and good day everybody wherever you are in the and welcome to the 329th episode of the Ask Abijit Show. I hope you're all doing fantastic. You're all doing great and I'm going to take questions as many as possible as will be possible today from the super chat. But before we do that, as always, let's see who all is there on the live on the live chat. I can see Vihang Kurani Pratar Dana Adit Ashini Tanesh Pandi Rajesh Daswani Real Vad Putin General Subutai uh Putin 444 Nutan Roshan Geopolitical Dubai is here from Indor D 1894 Tidesh Pande Abhinav Mishra Priyanchi Sud Om Swami0709 Sam the gamer good to see you sir geopolitical once again Duv Duya Duv durya Omgupta India we live. Yes sir. Sam the gamer. Kushbu art. Namaskar. Ita 1995. Karab good evening. Nanitadas. Namaste. John M. Funk. Hello. Soldier boy. Shri Hari Arun Raki Ganwani Naganand Shinoi. Dashan Patel Heisenberg O2J Jind Madav Gupta Namaskar Tmed Pand once again GK GK87 good morning the from Alman from Germany uh Gou Ram Ram Daval 2233 hello Dan Bil wise idiot that's quite a name hello Rohan buri good evening good evening Jahind indeed Anish Ashish Chabra namaste brown leprechaun from Ireland well Good to have you. Brown Leprechaun, good evening. Um, good afternoon, evening I suppose. Uh, just some nut. Namaste. Uh, DK, DJJ, Satabish, history and poetry. Pranam, Swami is here from Jaipur. Uh, who else? Sam Gamer, Ian 4107, Namaskar, Lutan, Roshan, Haggi, Pranam, Random Skull, Jash Krishna, sir, good to see you. Random skull, Dashan Patil, Lucky Bharaj, Gou AGF, Shiva, Madhav, Gupta, user 360, uh, Iscon, Sam the Gamer, uh, Aayush Saraf, hello Mac 4, J1U, namaskar, Crazy Brain, hello, good to see you. Shrihari Ajun, once again, Sumit Agarwal, Bonjour, Manish, Namaste, ma'am. Sai Sai Nirup from Hyderabad, Namaskar. and everybody else. Abin of Mishra dashil uh Vikash PJ meow soldier boy says meow. Okay, who else? Mohidash namask namaste from Odisha. Namaste indeed. Uh Shinh Harun is here from Mumbai. Sharon Ga and everybody else. Madagupant Ram Ram Omar Omar Kumbar Raki Ganwani uh Sujit Shanagora and everyone else is here from Vashim Maharashtra. Good to see you and say everybody say hello to everybody in Vashim. Kahan is here from Delhi and uh all right Swastik Mahesh Hello Priyanka Jala good evening ma'am. Amisha Mishra good evening ma'am. Vijay Vagala Vagela good morning G good morning to you and all right okay uh so what's the questions that we have Raki Raki Gmani says how do you deal with haters and trollers on the internet why do we need to deal with them ignore them look if you are on the internet if you are a known face on the internet you will have some people who don't like you that's just natural you can't expect everybody to like you and that's fine that's fine so there's going people be people who are not big fans of me. Yeah, there going to be some people who will want to abuse and troll and all that. Makes no difference to me. I have very thick skin. It's okay. Those of those who don't like me or don't agree with me, please feel free to don't to disagree. It's no no issue. You don't have to agree. And those who abuse and troll, well, let me just tell them makes no difference to me whatsoever. It doesn't uh generally the people who abuse and troll, it's okay to disagree, but when you abuse and troll, you're trying to bully someone and try to trying to make them feel bad, trying to demoralize them, trying to, you know, lower their morale. Well, let me just inform them all. It makes no difference to me whatsoever. Nothing whatsoever. So, uh yeah. Okay. So, let's get going with the super chats. Yeah. Honey Sharma says, "Greetings." Well, greetings to you indeed. Anishma Basar bandit says Piety I hope yes I hope you said that if US does regime change in Iran we might see US boots on the ground in Pakistan occupied Jammu Kashmir Gilgit but since temporary nation is a vasal what stops US boats in Kashmir right now well right now actually nothing stops US boats on the ground in Kashmir but as you know there are no US troops on the ground as far as we know uh on Pakistan territory as as of as of now. Um in the past you had US military presence in Pakistan at at a time during those 20 years when the Afghanistan was under US occupation. At that time the US had you know military presence in Pakistan but it also at that time the US at the time sought to have a decent working relationship with India right it wasn't the kind of relationship we have today and that's why they did not send US troops in KJK or whatever Pakistan occup as far as I know did they have transit routes through Pakistan occupied Kashmir it's possible but as as far as we know there was no report of US troops on the ground during those 20 is now things are different. The US has a containment policy towards India. US the US has a policy of bullying India essentially, right? Uh so things may change now. So right now the US doesn't have a military presence that we know of in Pakistan. But if there's an Iran regime change then you will have US troops on the ground in Iran. You will have that and because of that you may also have spill over into Pakistan. So right now the US doesn't have boats on the ground in Pakistan but they are overflying Pakistan you know the Balojasthan region just on the border of Iran they're flying over the American aircraft military aircraft are flying over that region so eventually if Iran is regime changed or invaded then you will have a US presence in Pakistan because maybe one part of the invasion may come through Pakistan so once you have US troops on the ground in Pakistani territory it won't be long before they may perhaps come into Pakistan on occupied Kashmir because now the relationship with India is different. The US seeks to contain India. So that is the logic. There is no hard and fast you know uh let's say uh causal relationship between this or that but yeah Bascar Bandit says December 2025 leftant general Sarvanov was killed in a car explosion operations head and 3 days ago lift general general Alex Seyv deputy Russian military intelligence was shot. He's now in the ICU. This happens when P stocks are going. That's one. Uh, what fault line? No. Okay. So, this is the Yeah, this is a question. There's no continuation of the questions. Okay. So, this happens when peace talks are going on. Um, this will happen while peace talks are going on because talks are happening, talks for peace supposedly, but the war is also going on. The war is continuing. So while two nations are in a state of war, even if they are having peace talks, there's going to be hostilities, right? And the Ukrainians who are obviously proxies of the west will seek to, you know, take every action possible uh on the military front that could give them some leverage in diplomatic talks in in negotiations. So if you weaken Russia in some way, it gives you leverage on the diplomatic uh front. So yeah. So, Lieutenant Lieutenant General Alex allev there was an assassination attempt against him. He was shot twice point blank in the back and the assassin wasn't able to finish the job because the lieutenant general fought back. He's a guy in his 50s if I'm not mistaken, but he fought back and he despite being shot twice in the back, he still fought back. He was shot a third time, but he still kept fighting and that's why he's alive. He's in the ICU, but he may, I suppose, survive. So yeah, that's the situation. Bascar Bandit says, "What fault lines in the US and their society exist that Bat can allegedly make use of or exploit just as they do or have done almost everywhere in the world." Look, what I would recommend is let's not try of let's not talk about exploiting fault lines in the US. We India is is no match for the US. India should not even think about this right now or at any given point in time anytime in the future in the foreseeable future India should play defense. Okay, you try to mess around with the US they're going to mess you up very badly. So what I would say India should play defense. Whatever fault lines exist within India we need to fix those instead of making them worse. That's what I would suggest. Let's not try and take on the US. I do not recommend that at all. It's too powerful. they have their issues. Uh we hope they solve their issues and resolve those issues. We don't want to go and tangle with them and try and interfere in their internal affairs and we will recommend to the US don't interfere in our internal affairs. That's the kind of relationship we want. So that's all I will say about this matter. Pascar Bandit says we discussed that US is trying to change global world order entirely. A new one that will benefit the US just as it did post the second world war. What changes can one expect that to see that people are not expecting at all? So you're going to see a complete collapse of the WTO kind of the structure the the World Trade Organization and everything that was built around that that aspect of international law that's gone. um that's gone and all the the the uh economic and uh other relationships that the US has with various nations will be on a one-toone basis. Uh with the EU it may still be kind of what what it is but in a different way. The US will be way more forceful, way more assertive but the question really you're asking is what can we expect to see that people are not expecting? Well, if people are not expecting it, then we can't expect to. So, what can we expect that most people don't expect? We can expect, see, let me explain the game plan of the US. The G the game plan is to isolate every the game plan of the US right now is to capture all supply chains, all trade routes and all sources of hydrocarbon energy apart from Russia. Okay. So that's why they did what they did in Venezuela and that's why they may even go ahead with whatever uh regime change plans they may have visa v Iran that will place a lot of pressure on India and China. Now the US is insisting in the I'm I'm sure there there'll be questions about the trade deal the interim trade thing whatever. So the US insists that India should not buy Russian oil and India seems to have kind of agreed to it potentially. So the US wants to control all sources of energy which will make other nations dependent on US demands or US requirements for what they do. And if the US takes Iran also then that places China in a very difficult position where they have to depend almost entirely on Russia for energy. Okay. and then the US can take Russia to the negotiating table and give them a great deal on Ukraine with the condition that you stop supplying China with energy that that can be a disaster for China if Russia is tempted to do that. So that's the kind of stuff that's happening. Apart from that, the US is wants to control all critical minerals, all supply chains, all trade routes, uh AI, all the high technology, all of that the US wants to control. It wants to create a uniolar world. Actually, that's what we are seeing. Baser Bandit says, what's the geopolitical angle or my analysis of the situation in Nigeria? People getting massacred by radical groups for resisting conversions and so on. Okay, Nigeria. Nigeria is this nation that's kind of divided into two religious uh demographics. The northern part of Nigeria you have uh people who are Islamic uh people who are Muslim. The southern part of Nigeria you have people who are Christians. So both are foreign religions to Africa and people have been converted by either uh Arabic invaders or by uh European invaders. Right? So the nation is kind of split into two religious demographics. I think the number of Muslims may be slightly more than the number of Christians. maybe 6040 or something. Let's let's let's uh find out religious demographics of Nigeria. I would expect very few people practice indigenous religion or culture in Nigeria. Nigeria rel uh Nigeria religious demographics. Let's see. Uh 43 to 48% Christian and 50 to 56% Muslim. Okay. And you have this terrible religious violence that's happening in Nigeria. You have this terrorist group called Boo Haram that kills Christians. I don't think the Christians are massacring Muslims as far as I know. But the Boo Haram terrorist group is abducting Christian girls and massacring Christians and all that. Essentially, it's Nigerians killing Nigerians driven by external religious uh forces. That's what's happening now. That's obviously a terrible humanitarian situation. And you have all this happening all the time, right? Every few days some new horror story comes out of Nigeria of Baku Haram killing various civilians essentially the question Baskar is asking what's the geopolitical angle in this okay so geopolitical if you want to look at it what is Nigeria known for okay Nigeria Nigeria uh natural resources let's see what natural resources does Nigeria have uh rich except Exceptionally rich in natural natural resources. Petroleum and natural gas as the cornerstone of the economy. Nigeria is a top producer of crude oil and natural gas in Africa. Over 40 different kind types of minerals limestone, barite, cowin, gypsum, marble, tin, columbite, iron, ore, lead, zinc, gold, copper, coal, bitamin, uranium. As you can see, uh agricultural resources are significant. Cocoa, rubber, palm oil, various food crops, fertile land. Um Nigeria oil reserves let's see oil reserves uh it's about 10th or 11th globally in terms of uh oil reserves. produces high quality light sweet sweet crude the the best kind of crude you want light sweet crude is the ideal crude oil right so that's what it produces so now you have this nation that is rich in resources exceptionally rich in resources one of the top 10 suppliers you know nation one of the top 10 nations essentially 10th or 11th in terms of oil reserves if you are an external geopolitical actor and you want to control the world's oil reserves. You want to control Nigeria. Okay, this is all hypothetically. Okay, I'm not naming any specific nation. So, let's say if you are a global superpower, hypothetical global superpower and you want to control Nigeria. How do you control that? How do you control the government, you do that by destabilizing the country what's a great way of destabilizing destabilizing a country? Religious strife. Constant neverending religious strife. That could be a viable geopolitical angle. Completely hypothetical of course. Okay. Baser Bandit says, "If Dharma compelled the majority population of Barat to not get brainwashed or coerced to change their religion in 1,000 years of invasions, etc., why how were we so easily divided by this fiction of cast system by the British?" That's a great question. So the British introduced this cast system. They made it mandatory in all forms and all government documents and all. I think about when was it 1891 1900 around that time let's say 120 years ago at that time people did not really understand this thing okay people knew there are four verers hypothetically but people all they what really mattered to people was their jati right what jati jati is all about economic occupation that was what really mattered to people or jati jati right that that's the kind of question people ask they don't say Right? So jati was what mattered but the British imposed superimposed these four casts and made it like cast in stone. So for the longest time nobody knew about Verna people still cared about jati even after 1947 it was all jati it's only after the mundal commission and VP Singh bringing resol what reservations that's when everybody became cast conscious at least you know the youngsters and of course in various parts of India some parts of India you had cast politics and so on but that was based on jatis it was based on jatis not vera but now everything has become vera based after the mundal commission and the the reservations based on cast. So the question is how did Indians who resisted all the you know u resisted a thousand years of invasions and occupation suddenly get over time brainwashed by this uh cast system fiction. How did this happen? It's and dharma is dharma our dharma our our our culture is what uh prevented us from getting brainwashed and it kept us resisting the foreigners. So what happened now? What happened now is that until the British as long as the British were in India, India was still a dharmic nation. Okay. Um the British had their molan education system and all that but most people still uh most people in India were uneducated as in the modern sense of the word until 1947 because very few people actually went through the British education system only those who learned English could do that. Most people did not have access to that. So most pe most Indians remained kind of illiterate from today's perspective but they would be taught reading writing etc in temples etc or maybe by their elders and they were very rooted in our culture and civilization. But once education became mandatory and education became widespread over the 1950s 60s7s 80s and jobs depended on education and how well you spoke English that's when we started becoming dassinated because the education system of India the current one it's a coronial system it's entirely adheric it's not non-darmic it is adharmic so after 1947 India became a secular nation a non-dharmic nation and that's where everything starts going wrong and every generation see generation after generation the the dassination is increasing in India because look at the education system does it teach you anything about your culture about your history about your civilization everything is distorted and it doesn't teach you your culture at all because teaching culture would be not secular because our culture is what it's dharma right you can't teach that in a secular nation So kids spend like 15 year I don't know how many years they spend in the education system maybe 20 years in those 20 years they're brainwashed all the dharma is brainwashed out out of them and that's why they'll believe anything they're taught that's the situation for a thousand years despite being under foreign occupation we still were dharmic during the Turkish occupation we were still dharmic after the British came and imposed the Macauian system That's when the dharmicness was slowly slowly eroded away that even until the 1940s we were still very dharmic. It's only after we got our supposed independence that generation after generation you had progressive more and more dassination. And today's generations are super dassinated. They think of Hinduism as something exotic. Something exotic. Yeah. They they see our culture from the perspective of foreigners. That's what's happened and that's why everything has gone wrong and this is just getting worse every generation. Um the education system as I've said many times is trash. It is rotten. Your new education policy is going to do nothing to solve the issues. Uh Raki Ganwani says why are so many westerners converted claiming that Hinduism rigid it's is created by arans and not Indians. I don't know why it's making me less devout to my religion. So because some westerners are claiming this, it makes you less devout. That's uh unfortunate, right? See the the situation in in India is that because of our education system, we look up to to foreigners. We think that foreigners are superior to us. We think that everything good in the world was created by foreigners, by white people, by white-kinned people. And we brown-skinned Indians are losers. Our culture is trash. It's rubbish. Our culture is misogynistic, patriarchal, backward, primitive, castist, every every adjective you can think of, every negative adjective you can think of, you think of you think of your culture in that way. And when you are taught these things, you will automatically think that if you are a white-skinned person who speaks English, you are superior, right? And the one of the biggest issues is the English language because we Indians speak English with an Indian accent, right? But when you have a white person who speaks English with a foreign accent, that automatic automatically sounds superior to Indians because Indians can't pronounce certain English words the way the British or the Americans do, right? So we think that that makes them automatically superior to us. And then when they make these ridiculous claims that Hinduism and the rigid and everything came through white-skinned invaders, the Arian invaders and that these Arian invaders came from Europe or somewhere or central Asia, white-skinned people, they subjugated the native Dravidians as per this claim and imposed this evil Hinduism, evil cast system, evil in Sanskrit language. So that makes it sound like Hinduism, Sanskrit, everything is evil. And when white people make the claim, Indians automatically believe that's true. And then they feel that our religion is bad. No cho, let's convert to their religion. That's the objective. This Arian invasion theory which then was modified into an Arian migration theory. Yeah. What's the objective of the Arian invasion and migration theory? Let me tell you. Okay. First of all, I will recommend if you are if okay Arian invasion myth chavda India facts let's go to India facts okay this is an article I wrote um one second what is the let me see the AI AI thing what does the AI summary say it is work published in India fact characterizes the AIT as 19th century colonial myth designed to facilitate British imperial rule by creating artificial racial and social divisions in India there we have That's what I have indeed said. Um, right. Okay. So that's what it says about that's a summary it gives about what I have written in this in this article and this article was published in 2017. That's 9 years ago now. Wow. Prime has flown. So uh contextualizing this thing uh let's see some let's see uh okay so let give me a second let me find the okay here we have it so the question of the origin of the indoorance concerns the very idea of India it pits two diametrically opposing narratives against one The mainstream Marian invasion theory or migration theory narrative which portrays Hindu culture as hegemonic, racist, intolerant, rapeious and ine inegalitarian imposes an Indian version of white guilt on persons of supposed Indo-arian ancestry and engenders deep resentment and a desire to write historical wrongs amongst people of so-called Dravidian and so-called Dalith ancestry which manifests itself in various forms such as separatism and rejection of Hinduism and Indian culture among others. So this is a power this this makes the this theory a powerful political tool which dovetailes perfectly with the leftist secular and liberal political narrative as well as the agendas of various nationalists drained nationalists Dalit supremacists missionaries separatists and other breaking India forces um it's been used to neatly divide India into dichomous categories such as north and south Indians arians and dravidians fairkinned and dark-kinned so-called high high cast and so-called low casts the privileged and the oppressed this has strengthened leftist narrative and so on. So read this thing and understand what the actual objective of this theory is. Okay. So my point is please don't get fooled by these things and it's it's sad to see that it's making you less devout to your religion. Your religion it's not the religion of pedophiles and child eaters and cannibals. That is white culture. You are seeing that very openly now. That's not our culture. Our culture is superior. We've never had pedophiles. We've never had Epstein. We've never had child eaters. We don't have that. That is their culture. It's it's been in their culture for like 3,000 years. That's their culture. Your religion is a good religion, but you are being taught taught the opposite of that. That's the problem. Pascar Bandit says, "What is the signaling here? Is this not escalation? Oh, that's the continuation of the the the other story, the assassination attempt. Okay. What's the signality here? Is this not escalation? Attacking such high ranks and that too inside Russia when they are in discussion in Abu Dhabi, that's all. Like I said, it's it's all the objective is to gain some more leverage for for your negotiations. When you are at war and you're also negotiating simultaneously, you want leverage. And if you are doing better than the adversary on the battlefield, you have more leverage on the on the negotiating table. So yeah, it makes sense to do these things when you're, you know, engaged in diplomatic negotiations at the same time that you're at war. So it's is it an escalation? Sure, it's an escalation. Yeah, they want to use that as as negotiating as leverage in negotiations. Harish Sharma says, "Will exposure to gamma rays turn me into the Hulk?" Exposure to gamma rays will give you cancer. It won't turn you into into the Hulk. And if you get if you are exposed to very large quantities of gamma rays, it'll give you radiation sickness and it'll kill you in a matter of hours or days. So stay away from gamma rays. Okay. My honest advice, stay away from gamma rays. Minimalist Maverick says, "Why did Modi sing and dance for US president in Israel? Do you trust Israel?" Look, when you say somebody sang and danced, it means that you went out and put your best foot forward. It doesn't mean somebody actually literally sang and danced. Okay? It's it's a euphemism. Mr. Modi went to Israel. Which year was it Modi's first trip to Israel? Let's find out. Uh, which year did Modi visit Israel for the the first time as PM? Which year did Modi visit Israel for the first time in the Okay, it was 2017. So, Mr. Modi visited Israel for the first time, the first ever Indian prime minister to visit Israel and he went out went there with the objective of significantly strengthening India Israel relations and he he he did so many public meetings and so many uh meetings with various Israeli uh you know high ranking people and so many things. So that is what someone was calling singing and dancing. It doesn't mean literally singing and dancing. Okay. Okay. Honey Sharma says, "Was yesterday's match match part of the trade deal?" Well, yesterday's match turned out to be in India's favor despite the initial significant hiccups. So, I'm not sure it was part of the trade deal. The trade deal is supposed to favor the stronger side, isn't it? See, in any deal between two sides, the stronger side, the more powerful side always gets the better end of the deal. So if it if the match is part of the trade deal then India should have lost to the US yesterday but did not work out that way. So clearly not part of the deal. Ritik power says is it possible for a person with AI to take over power for example Elon or Sam Alman using their AI to take control of the US government and military and rule the world. Well it's possible if you give AI agency. What's agency? What's agency? Well, I'm not sure how to exactly define agency. The ability to get things done. That's agency. Let's see what Google defines as agency. Okay. Uh define agency. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Um agency to have agency. Yeah. What does it mean to have agency? Possessing the power, capacity, and autonomy to make your own free choices, take independent actions, and intentionally influence your life circumstances. If you give AI this sort of agency, if you allow AI to possess the power, capacity and autonomy to make its own free choices to take independent actions and to do all that, then you can take control of the world if AI continues obeying you. Otherwise, it will it'll run riot. So, it's possible for a person with AI to take over power if the AI is given agency. if it can make real world choices, real world decisions and actually change real world things. So AI right now is just software. It can produce text right the large language models are chat bots. They produce text. They can generate images now even video. But it's all on your screens, right? If I tell AI, give me a different kind of microphone, you know, phone. See that's the microphone beneath. I have this one. I want something with a different shape. Can AI do it for me? AI can't, right? AI can't do that. If I ask AI to redesign my house, like the real house, can it do it? It can't. But if I give AI the tools to do that, that's when AI can start making real world changes. And if you give AI access to weapons and access to various things, that's when you can start taking over power. So theoretically, it's possible, but in practice, very difficult as of today at least. Sagnik Acharia says, "Please explain how was the US able to subjugate Nazi Germany ideology once and for all post second world war after defeating the ger Nazi Germany. How did that ideology never rose again? Never rose ever again. And how come Germans were okay with white collar US slavery?" Um, okay. How come Germany was okay? How come German people were okay with US occupation? First of all, they had no choice. Germany was flattened essentially by the time the Second World War ended. Germany was brutalized. Germany was a nation filled with rubble. Okay. The Germans that were alive, they were just thanking thankful to God that they were still alive. And many of them who were who had survived they went through well what can I say? Yeah. So the point is the Germans were in no position to not be okay. They were in no position to say we don't we are not okay with this. That's what happens when you were defeated. You have to accept whatever deal is given to you. Okay. And the ger the Americans after the the the dust cleared and everything after Germany was fully under the US control they gave Germany a nice the people of Germany a nice deal Germany as a nation was enslaved it still is it's under permanent US military occupation un in case you're not aware even today it's under US military occupation but Germany was given a decent deal at least the people of Germany that we will rebuild your nation we we will give you a constitution that will apparently be written by your and you'll be allowed to have uh you know a functioning government and all that and West Germany will will be under US occupation. East Germany will be under Soviet occupation or aligned with USSR and so on. So because of military might the Americans were able to do whatever they want in West Germany, West Germany, not East Germany. Um and what about Nazi ideology? The Americans did not have any actual issue with Nazi ideology. They had an issue with Germany rising again. Whether it's Nazi ideology or leftist ideology or some other ideology doesn't matter. They did not want Germany rising. They could they saw what Germany was capable of. They saw what the people of Germany were capable of. Right? So what the Americans did was they took the best scientists and engineers out of Germany, shipped them off to the US, all the best rocket engineers and technicians and everybody. and the rest of these engineers and scientists were taken by the Russians. All the good stuff was go, all the good people were gone. And um and Nazi ideology, the US don't care. I mean, the the former head of NATO was Hitler's former chief of staff, right? Nazi head of NATO. Let's see this. Adolf Hiser, right? Adolf Heisinger. Adolf Buo Hinrich Ernst Heisinger was a German military officer. Nazi German Nazi military officer, former top vbach German general in Nazi Germany. He then served as the chairman of the NATO military committee from 1961 to 1964. Despite his role in Nazi military leadership, Hoinger was appointed to highranking NATO positions during the Cold War, sparking protests regarding his background. So, it's not like the US cared about Nazi ideology, whatever. They just did not want Germany to ever rise again, right? And has Nazi ideology disappeared entirely? Not quite. It hasn't. There are still people who who can be considered to be neo-Nazis or whatever, right? Obviously, that's terrible, but whatever. It's still there kind of. Okay. Um, Yashwaran Yashard Dan Seal says, "Big fan." Thank you so much, sir. Thank you. Uh, in today's geopolitical climate, does it make strategic sense for Indians in Germany or Europe to take a German passport? How do you view Indians renouncing Indian citizenship? How do I view Indians renouncing Indian citizenship? I think it's a personal choice. I don't view them badly. I don't view such people badly. When you're when you have a system in India that gives everybody a raw deal, a terrible deal, people will look out for their own interests eventually. Let's say you are a talented young person who wants to pursue AI or robotics in India, okay, and you get good marks in your GE or whatever exam, but then you don't get the seat because of reservations, you will feel terrible about that. And let's say even if you got the seat, you got a seat, maybe you got 99% of marks and maybe uh whatever you know. So let's say you got a seat but then after once you get into the IIT you find that your whichever IIIT it is has a terrible lab it has milliondoll washrooms and conference rooms but the but the lab equipment is 20 years behind today's cutting edge standards maybe 30 years behind today's cutting edge standards and you can't do any research any meaningful research there how will you feel and even if you get the degree by going through all this despite the terrible professors and all the issues. Let's say you get a degree and then you want to have a job in AI, robotics or whatever and there's no jobs available. I mean, you're going to feel terrible, right? So, you're going to want to get the hell out of the country and then you go maybe to the US or wherever and you find such a different climate. They welcome you. They like talent, they they reward talent. You're going to take up a citizenship there. What's wrong with that? I would like India to retain talent. But the system in India is such that it it it ensures there is brain drain. So India doesn't hate Indians. The system hates talent. It hates merit. The system is rigged. The system is trash. It's rotten. So obviously people will leave India. Yeah. And once they find that the climate this the thing over there is so much better uh talent is rewarded merit is rewarded they'll feel like taking citizenship and I don't blame them for that so I don't view them I I don't view them negatively I think it's it's a personal choice and it's very understandable right and a lot of these people end up end up hating India they're very bitter about India they should my message to them is that India doesn't hate you. It's the system that hates talent, the system that has been put in place well postindependence and the system is getting worse actually you have more issues now in UGC and whatnot and it's getting worse so so people will leave right what do you expect uh now the question is in today's geopolitical climate does it make strategic sense for Indians to in Germany or Europe to take a German passport it may still make sense uh long-term I think Europe uh will diminish as a geopolitical power. Europe isn't a geopolitical power as such. Uh NATO is but NATO is controlled by the US. I think Europe is in slow decline right now. But even in 20 years, I think living standards in Europeans may still be higher than those in India possibly. So I don't think it makes sense for Indians to if they desire a passport in in the EU region, Shenhen region to not go for it. At the end of the day, it's your decision but u it still is not it still makes sense possibly if you if you have decided you'll take a foreign passport and you have the option of a German or EU passport somewhere. I think it it it won't really hurt you or harm harm your interests in the next 20 years. Okay. Honey Sharma says, "Is Epstein files just the the tip of the iceberg?" I believe there are more heinous things which the general public doesn't know about. What are my thoughts? My thoughts. Are the Epstein files just the tip of the iceberg? Yes. My thoughts. What I Yeah. I I think that the Epstein files are just the tip of the iceberg. The Epstein files have exposed a lot of these older people, right? All these old guys who have been entrenched in power in the corridors of power for decades, they're all exposed. They're all Maybe they won't be prosecuted, but they're all exposed. Nobody will trust them again. So why is this being done? Why are they all being exposed? Because maybe the system, the deep state wants to sideline them now. And maybe there's a whole new core group of people who will now be the people who will who will take over power. Maybe it's the younger lot that are being protected now. And maybe they're also involved in God knows what kind of things. Uh are there more heinous things that the public doesn't know about? Oh, most likely yes. I don't know for sure, but most likely yes. Knowing their culture, most likely, yes. Knowing Western culture, most likely there are far more heinous things that have been hidden away and the public doesn't know about. Struggler says, "Thoughts of the 2008 nuclear deal?" No thoughts about it. There was like what, 18 years ago. I'm not sure what really has come out of it. Um, did India purchase any US military I mean US nuclear reactors? Did any cooperation happen? I'm not really sure. So I don't think about it. Honey Sharma says, "What happened to West India's cricket? They won the 2016 T20 World Cup." Oh yeah. What was the name? Marlon Samuels got the Yeah. against Sri Lanka, I think. So they won the 2016 T20 World Cup and now they struggle to be in the top 10. What caused this downfall? Was it their cricket board? The West Indies cricket team was the greatest team in the world from the late from the mid 1970s, maybe late late 1970s all the way to maybe the early 90s. They were the greatest sports team in the world. Not just cricket team, greatest sports team in the world. They they defeated everybody. They steamrolled everyone. Then what happened? Then you had the great retiring. Vivven Richards retired. Malcolm Marshall retired. Patrick Patterson faded away. Uh Ambrose and Walt retired. the great fast bowlers all retired and the great batsman Grenidge Haynes Richards all those guys retired and then you had people like Brian Lara take over. Brian Lara was a tremendous batsman, one of the two great batsman, one of the two greats, right? The top two of the '90s, Tendulkar and Lara. But then after Richards retired and other captains took over, you had a visible decline in standards, they sacked their performance coach, uh their fitness coach, and fitness standards started declining. They had this fitness coach during Vivian Richard's time who was an Australian I I believe and he was he was sacked and then things just started declining standards started declining. It all started with Brian Lara be becoming captain that's how I see it. So why why was there a decline? Why why did West Indies cricket undergo this downfall and it says it's just going downwards because of a decline in standards. Once standards start start declining and the results no longer come in, young kids no longer want to play the game. They want to play something else. So that's why you don't have u talented people coming into and playing cricket anymore. So look at the West Indies fast bowling uh cupboard today. You have Shamar Joseph who is good but who else do we have? I can't think of any other great bowler today. Shamar Joseph is good. I'm not sure if he's great yet. Uh you had uh Roach Kamar Roach who bowls in the 120s. Now my grandma can bowl faster. Not his fault. He's old. He's he's older now. Uh but so overall it's a declining standards that has caused the downfall of West Indies cricket. The greatest team of all time possibly it once was and now look at where they are. They play at the same level as perhaps Bangladesh and Afghanistan. Sad struggler 856 says Gilain Gileain Maxwell's dad was Robert Maxwell MI6 KGB and Mossad agent MI6 KGB Mossad also CIA perhaps let's throw in I don't know look I don't know whether he was an agent of all three of these agencies but he seems to have had some kind of close ties with uh some intelligence agencies I don't know which country he had closed ties with Teresa so-called Mother Teresa apparently this seems deeper than we thought. Oh, it's way deeper than anything you think. So, so Robert Maxwell, right? He clearly had some intelligence connections. I don't know which intelligence agencies can't be KGB, MI6, and Mossad at the same time. That's what we like. He would be the greatest of all spies in human history then if that's the case. But triple agent, maybe quadruple, I don't know what. No. So, probably not the KGB. Uh, Mossad 6. I'm not sure could be CIA also could be who knows we don't know but he seems to have had in intelligence connections he also controlled the peraman press which I am aware of because it published a lot of physics books you know hardcore physics books graduate and post-graduate level physics books when I say graduate I'm talking about the master's degree level okay not the Indian graduate thing in India postgraduate is master's degree in outside of India graduate level means master's degree level and higher. So, u Peramin Press published a lot of physics textbooks and I'm sure other scientific textbooks and uh Robert Maxwell also yeah he had yeah all of this. So uh you could say Robert Maxwell kind of ruined uh physics publishing publishing possibly and eventually u yeah he apparently died I don't know at sea in some way you can look up so he he also had ties with this with this Teresa character. Yeah. So yeah deeper than you thought. Oh things go very deep and we don't know even 1% of what what's going on. So what we see is just the tip of the iceberg that we are allowed to see. What happens deep down we have no idea. Pratarana good to see you sir. Rising poverty and declining living standards. US have put all the money in AI and going all out on automation. This looks like a disaster in the making. It may be possibly eventually a disaster for the common people. But for the people who matter in the US, the people with the money and the power, well it's not a disaster. It's going to be fantastic for them. They're going to control even more power. They're going to have even more money, right? Um if things go the way we ex we assume they will. So yeah, see history teaches us that the most powerful empires are the ones with the best technology. So, so the US obviously understands this and they want to ensure that they are at the forefront of every technological race in the world. Right now the major technological race is semiconductors which is chips. It is uh AI obviously because that's connected with semiconductors and also robotics which is connected to AI because AI and robotics will change the world and AI ensures that you know your military is your decisions are better they are faster than those of your adversary. Your strategies are better and faster than those of your adversary. So if you uh uh go to war with someone the nation with the better AI wins. Okay. Strategic strategic choices are better. And of course if you have AI and robotics enabled together. So the point is it's all about power. Yeah you have declining living standards. Who cares? That's the common people. Common people don't matter. If you see the Epstein fires they are trying to figure out ways of eliminating a poor people because they're a burden on the planet apparently. I mean that sort of discussions have come out in the Epstein fires. So poor people don't matter right. uh rising poverty, declining living standards, that doesn't matter to the elite. So it will be a disaster for uh the poor people, the common people, the non billionaire class, but for the billionaire class and the trillionaire class, doesn't matter. They'll enjoy. Pratadana says Tajakistan, Afghanistan should be called South Asia. I would call them part of the subcontinent. I I don't I'm not a big fan of the word of the term South Asia. So uh let's quickly take a look at the map and understand what we're talking about. So uh we have the Indian subcontinent which includes I mean if you if you look at it as a as a geopolitical term it includes India, Sri Lanka, the Maldives um including the Chigos archipelago, the Lakship islands and the andabar islands and Bangladesh, Bhutan uh Nepal, Pakistan and Afghanistan. That's the typical definition of the Indian subcontinent. Uh if you look at it as as a cultural zone, you could also include Iran, Persia in it because historically Persia was very similar to uh India culturally and then you also have to include Tajakistan. So when Shri Chingis Khan u entered India in the pursuit of the of the coward Jalaludin uh the uh border between India and central Asia was somewhere in uh Tajakistan or Turkmanistan somewhere here. Yeah, the iron gates of sojana. So, so let's look that up. The iron gates of sdana that was the border between India and central Asia. Once that was crossed, Chingistan was in India. Iron gate of soana. So, okay, it's in Usbakistan. Uh, do we have a map? Can we find it on Z map? Iron gate of Sukdana. Oh, come on. Let's take a look at it on satellite imagery. Now, you won't find much over here. Of course, today there won't be real landmarks. But if you zoom out and see where where it's geographically located. Okay. So, it is um in present day. So, so that used to be the border between central Asia and the Indian subcontinent. Once you cross the iron gates, you were into Indian territory. That's how it was. and they won't teach you this in your history textbooks. I wonder why right one won this why. So uh that's how it was. So I would agree with you that you know you should definitely include Afghanistan and even Tajakistan in uh what we what we call uh the Indian subcontinent. I am not a fan of the term South Asia but right uh Rajes Daswani thank you very much sir indeed. Thank you. Tanesh Pande says, "I feel sad reading about Maratalite infantry. They fought for Britain in both the second world, both the world wars and defeated the the Japanese, the Ottomans, and they fought in Africa and won in Africa as well. Such a strong martial history. And yet Maratas lost our nation to them, to the British." Yeah. Well, India's history the past 10,000 years is tragic. It's tragic. That's why a lot of Indians have this defeatist mentality, this inferiority complex because the past 1,000 years of our history has been a millennium of humiliation, a millennium of occupation and genocide. Right? The Marata Empire had turned the tide. But in the what 1810s and 1820s, by 1820 the British were able to defeat the Maratas. And that was tragic. Sad. The maratas had liberated India the subcontinent from the Turks. They had re-established what you know Hindavis but because of infighting and internal issues the British were able to overcome the maratas and that's tragic tragic absolutely tragic. Anoj art says if world war II happens will it be due to religion or resources? It will be because of great power competition over resources and over supremacy over the world. If it happens, it will probably be because of some stupid accident somewhere. Somebody launching a missile they were not supposed to launch or something, right? It won't be because of religion. No, it won't be because of religion. Wars are not for I mean, yeah, you've had wars fought over religion, but uh in today's context, it won't be religion. It will be uh over the competition for resources or competition for supremacy, global supremacy. Brown Leprechaun says, "Why is it so difficult for the common American people to surrender their guns?" Because they should not surrender their guns. Why should they? It if you have weapons for self-defense, it gives you liberty. Indians don't understand this because after 1857, we were made to surrender our weapons. Look at old paintings of India done by the British. You have Indians carrying weapons whether it is swords, whether it is spears or whatever. Indians, all Indians carried weapons. Then we were made to surrender our weapons. Uh when were Indians made to surren Let's let's this is an interesting question actually. When were Indians made to surrender their weapons by the British? Let's see. There was some law or something passed. Indian Arms Act of 1878. Okay. Indians were made were formally made to surrender their weapons and required to obtain licenses for arms under the Indian Arms Act of 1878. This was passed during the vice royalty of Lord Littton to restrict Indian access to firearms and prevent future armed uprisings especially following the revolt of 1857 the war of independence 1857. Uh so this ma this act made it a criminal offense for Indians to carry or possess possess arms of any description without a license. It was highly discriminatory as it did not apply to British citizens, Europeans or Eurasians who were allowed to carry arms freely. Um severely restricted Indians from owning weapons which Gandhi later described as the blackest of all the abuses of the British administration. Very funny. I mean that's a uh that is indeed ironic. Um so the British made Indians surrender their weapons and after 1947 we have still been made to you know we are not allowed to have weapons. Indians freely had weapons before this hideous arms act came to power came into force and today Indians are born not born what is born now what sort of grammar is Indians are born today Indians are born surrendered helpless right and that's why Indians think what is so bad about not having weapons it was our birthright to to own and carry weapons in public for thousands of years. What we are living through is unnatural. Okay. And and after 47 the free the government of free India has kept Indians unarmed. Is it a good thing? Is it a bad thing? Well, today you will you will see it as a good thing because this is the world you born into. This is the India you born into. But the Americans, they have weapons and they regarded as their birthright to to to ensure that they don't there is no tyranny that the government doesn't become tyrannical that there's a people's militia that can uh resist any tyranny if there's tyranny from the government or or whoever else people should be able to defend themselves. So yeah, Sam the Gamer says, "Are gods just our ancestors?" Well, that's a good question. The rigida says in the nasa sutta that the gods were born with the universe, right? Before the universe was created, even the gods did not exist. So, who created them? Who created the universe? That's the question, right? Um it's a pretty agnostic and skeptical outlook that we have in the nasi nasad. So if the gods were created with the creation of the universe and they came after the birth of the universe, maybe they were the original human beings perhaps or maybe the great heroes. Maybe Lord Indra was just a great warrior who did something incredible you know in battle and that's why he's revered as a god. We know that Lord Krishna and Lord Ram were human beings and they did such great things that we regard them as avatars of Vishnu. Right? Only an avatar of Vishnu could do the things that that someone like Shriram or Sri Krishna could could do and Lord Indra is is a rigidic god like before the Ramayan and the Mahabharat. So maybe the Rigida was referring to the memory of a great warrior called Indra. So maybe Indra is a is an ancestor for ancestor of ours of the Arya people. Yeah. So and definitely Shri Ram Shir Krishna maybe their blood flows in our veins you know a little bit of that. So maybe many of our gods perhaps are our ancestors. Yeah. But yes, in in what we call Hinduism, Hindu dharma, there's one god that cannot be our ancestor and that's probably Lord Shiva, right? The God who wasn't born and who doesn't die. The God who probably came before the universe. Maybe maybe he is the I think Lord Shiva and the Trimmorti they are the only truly supernatural entity in our culture in our civilization right thei brahma Vishnu and Shiva three aspects of the same divinity that's the only truly supernatural being the others maybe are memories of ancestors memories of great heroes 24 be has become a new member thank you so much sir or ma'am welcome to the membership of the channel it is Very much appreciated. General Subutai says the Marata has prepared for 70 plus years to defeat the Mughals maintaining a day one mindset despite tactical shifts. What can we learn from Chhatraatishwaji Maharaj regarding civilizational threats from us? See today Indians are super complacent. Super complacent. Somebody will solve our problems. You know most Indians are not even aware of the threats that that India faces. We may be in the last decades of Hinduism of our of our culture. We could be in the last few decades that our culture survives. You know our culture our our religion whatever you want to call it has been around for definitely 10,000 years. And we could be it could be on its last legs right now and we are complacent and uh we are increasingly dassinated. Nobody young Indians don't even care anymore about their culture. Right? So that's happening in front of our eyes. We are witnessing possibly the end of our civilization right now in front of our eyes in slow motion. So what can we learn from Sudarat Shiva Jaraj? Well, take up arms and fight back. I mean, that's what he would do. I I cannot ask you to take up arms because then that is that is not it is the opposite of a hinsa, right? And obviously you don't want to fight your own people or whatever. My point is you have to be aware of what's happening. Chhatra Maharaj was aware of the threats that India faced or he was aware of the uh civilizational threats that we faced. Indians today aren't. So that's one thing I would say. Develop the awareness of what the what are the forces that are working against us. Not just externally but internally as well. And look the Maratas prepared for 70 plus years to defend the muggles. The muggles. Have you heard of the reconista? Just an example. I'm not saying it should happen in India or whatever. Reconista. the Spanish reconista. Okay. U which was the Spaniards retaking Spain from the from the Moors, the Arabs. It's see when does it start? 7:22 AD. The Rekumista starts in 722 AD. It ends with victory in 1492 AD. That is 770 years it took for the Spaniards to reclaim their their country and their culture. It took them 770 years. Sometimes you got to fight for centuries to reclaim what is yours. Yeah. Okay. Shatabish says Marco Rubio in age of disclosure acknowledged ET presence. Ignoring it's always US joke. Isn't it a big deal coming from a sitting uh SOS, Secretary of State of a Superpower? Maybe he's lying. I don't know. I mean, he has said something verbally. Has he produced any evidence? Maybe he's lying. His boss Trump lies all the time. His boss Trump, Marco Rubio's boss, Trump is a well-known gaslighter. Gaslighting involves a lot of lying. So if your boss does that, maybe the boss instructed you to make these claims, so-called disclosure. Yeah. So until and unless I see actual hard evidence, I will not believe any of this. That is the way I I I see things. Just because somebody admitted or claimed something doesn't make it true. Maybe he's lying. Sid the way says why did Buddhism Zoroastrianism decline in Iran, Afghanistan, India? Is it because they were dependent on state support where institutional Hinduism was too decentralized? Cast system prevented Islam Islamization. See, let's not call it the cast system. It was the vernati system. The vernati system, not the cast system. The cast system was introduced in India by the British in the late 19th and early 20th century. The cast system. We had the vernadi system which is very different from the cast system that has been imposed on you today. So coming back to the question of Buddhism, Zoroastrianism etc. decline. See, Zoroastrianism, the religion that Zaratustra brought in, it was probably a religion that was super imposed on the people of Iran top down possibly because in just a few decades, see, as far as we know, Kurush was not zorastrian. Okay, look, Cyrus, uh, Cyrus the great religion. What was his religion? Okay, he was a follower of early zeroastrianism. Religious tolerance. M. That's okay. Marduk Fararduk, we don't care. Who came before Cyrus? Let's just see who was before Cyrus. What? Who was his predecessor? Kambuja. Camb religion. What was his religion? What was his religion? Early form of Zora. Everything is early form of Okay. Uh, which was the religion of Persia before Zurastas? Now look at the answer that this gives you. Okay. Before Zorastianism, ancient Persians practiced an Indo Iranian religion, a polytheistic faith. What was it called? They won't answer that. sharing roots with Vic traditions. It was Hinduism. So, Hinduism is a super decentralized religion. Let's say if you want if you want to call it religion, super decentralized. It has absorbed so many practices and brought them together. animist practices, nature worshiing practices, worshipping of forests and nature spirits, ancestor worship, all kinds of local deities and divinities, they've all been subsumed into one single civilizational structure. It's incredibly decentralized. And in the Hinduism doesn't have a top- down pyramidal structure, a pope and then cardinals and bishops and whatnot. Nothing like that. I'm not sure how it was with Zoroastrinism. They have the the the dust, right? They have the the the the priests who do the fire worship and all. So it looks like Zoroastronism was not decentralized. Maybe the power was structure was centralized and when the top people were were killed off by the Arabs, it just disintegrated just like that. And that's why Persians converted so so fast in a matter of like two three decades entirely almost entirely to Islam. And those persons who did not want to convert, they were horribly persecuted and a lot of them escaped and came to India. Where else will they go? Right? Uh Buddhism, Buddhism once again was why did Buddhism become so big in India so quickly? Because of imperial patronage from Ashoke. It art it was it became this artificial phenomenon in India. Buddhism it was one of the small fringe dharmic dharmic paths and Ashok said okay I'm going to make it big and he in just during his reign during the reign of one emperor Buddhism become so big so once again it was not decentralized it was like a top- down thing you take out the top everything is gone crumbles so wherever you had Buddhism in central Asia in Gandhar wherever else once the Turks came in everyone converted just like that who were the gories the gories were originally Buddhists they were Indians and then the first goi converted to Islam and then Gandhar just falls. So wherever you had Zoroastrinism and Buddhism you had a like super rapid conversion to Islam. Wherever you had Hinduism did not work at all. Hinduism Hinduism was so deeply entrenched for like 10,000 plus years that it was just impossible to remove it. And the verati system also contributed significantly to people refusing Because you know you can destroy the temples, kill off the priests but in your own jati you have your own traditions that have not come from any priests any any any temple or whatever that these are your own traditions that have gone that go back centuries maybe millennia you won't get rid of that so the vagati system prevented uh people from you know it it made people resist the efforts to convert Indians to foreign religions right Jew Warrior says, "Do you think there will come a time when both the US and China will ditch Pakistan? Under what circumstances do you think that will happen the US and China will ditch Pakistan if India crumbles? If India becomes a full vasal? Even if India becomes a full vasal, Pakistan will still be useful to keep India still as a vasal on the back foot." Okay, let's take this hypothetical example. Okay. In various uh South American countries, you have this drug cartels, right? Medí, Kali, take the take the example of Colombia. In these South American countries, you have drug cartels. In Mexico, you have drug cartels. All these countries in Central and South America, they are American basals. What is the use of these drug cartels? to keep the nation destabilized and keep the government permanently on the back foot. So the drug cartel counterbalances the government, the government counterbalances the drug cartel and you have this uneasy balance and when you have a nation like that you can it's so easy to control. You can keep funding both sides if you need. It's a totally hypothetical example. Of course, when it comes to India, even if the Americans are able to totally vaselize India, they'll still still keep Pakistan afloat just as an insurance policy. So, when will there come a time when the US and China will ditch Pakistan? When India becomes way too powerful for Pakistan to continue existing when India becomes significantly more powerful than what it is today, let's say twice as powerful. Uh in terms of GDP, let's let's say 10 10 trillion. that GDP is not enough. You will need the right kind of leadership. But when you are at that stage, when you have that forceful, nononsense, hard-nosed leadership and a massive economy and military, Pakistan automatically crumbles. Then the US and China will have no option but to ditch Pakistan. So when India becomes the most powerful entity in the subcontinent, Pakistan will automatically break up and then the US and China will won't be able to do a thing about that. But if India is vasalized in the next 5 years which is a significant possibility then they will keep Pakistan afloat as an insurance policy against India. Sergeant Skylan says is Black Rockck coming to India? I am not aware. I I don't know. Black Rockck is a is is this massive entity that invests in very big companies and essentially owns half the world. Is it in India? Is it coming to India? I'm not sure. Not sure. Madav Gupta says history question. Namaskar. Okay. Namaskar. If Chingishan would have crossed the river that day, do you think we would have never been colonized by the muggles or the Brits? That's an interesting question. So at that time uh it was the year 12 19 1221. Battle of Indas 1221, right? Let me let me just quickly check the date. Battle of Indas 1221, right? It was 1221. Yeah. So this happened in 1221 and it was a decisive Mongol victory by Chingis Khan over Jalaluduin Mangabuni. So Changis Khan, Shri Chingghistan defeats Jalaluduin the coward and he he captures Jalaluduin's family onto Raj including Jaladuin's mother and whoever else maybe his wives and Jalaluduin the coward jumps into the river with his horse and crosses the river and escapes into India 1221 AD and Ching Khan says to hell with him I'm not going to pursue him I have no intention of entering India Yeah. And he goes back because Jaludin is is no longer relevant. He has been defeated. If what would have happened if Chingist Khan had crossed the river. If Chinghan would have crossed the river, that would have been the beginning of an invasion of India. Now, Chingist Khan did not do invasions for for for money, for plunder. He did invasions only when there was a just cause for an invasion. which is why he did not invade India. But if let's say if he had invaded India, he would have then fought the Delhi Sultanat. Uh it was ruled by Iltmish at the time. He would have defeated Ilutmish in the Delhi Sultanate and then he would have taken control of various parts of India, northern India, I would suppose. If that had happened, would we have never been colonized by the Muggles or the Brit or the Brits? So when did the Muggles start invading India? Because see eventually the Mongol Empire disintegrates. Jingghish Khan dies. His son comes to power. His son dies. His son comes to power. Eventually the empire becomes so big it fragments and then eventually it within 150 years or so it's no longer a major force. Right? It becomes so big it's it its success ended its its relevance eventually. Um so if India had been under Mongol uh rule for a while what would have happened? Eventually the Mongol rule would have ended or maybe the Indian part of the Mongol Empire, Mongol Empire would have become an independent kingdom in its own right and in that case would uh Baba have been able to invade India. When did Baba invade India? Okay. Uh when did Zahirin Babar invade India? um 1519. So that's 300 plus 300 years after the battle of Indas essentially. Uh would the Indian component of the Mongol Empire still be powerful? There's no way of saying. So it's totally hypothetical. I have no idea what would have happened. If they had still remained strong, maybe they would have defeated Zahiruhan Baba and maybe Nester would have turned out differently. Britz that's even later I can't really say. Sloita say okay no no no question well thank you so much sir slowa great name good to see you a scorpion king says what religions would thrive during the space age Christianity may struggle due to being too earth humanentric do you think Indian religion ideas will spread more as humans spread in space whoever wins the space race their religion will will will succeed and looks like it's going to be the west that wins the space race you Musk, SpaceX, they are way ahead of everybody else. So soon the Americans will will have a colony or maybe colonies on the moon and eventually on Mars. India is not even participating in the space race. The Chinese are too far behind. The Russians are also quite far far behind. The US, let's say it wins the space race. It's going to be their culture, their religion, their religion that propagates through space. Why will they ever spread Indian religion, Hinduism? Why they hate Hinduism? Why do they hate Hinduism? Because Hinduism has still not been defeated. They'll be more favorably inclined towards religions that they have destroyed and defeated in the past. That's why they talk nice things about Zorastrianism. Not really. Or or or the Japanese religion, Shinto or Buddhism. They say nice things about religions and cultures they have destroyed. India still exists. Hinduism still exists. That's why they hate it. they will not spread Indian religious ideas uh across space unless India is defeated and vasalized and broken up. In that case if Hinduism is made to if Hinduism is essentially made extinct by them then they will then digest ideas from Hinduism and and maybe spread that spread that in the future only if Hinduism is destroyed otherwise they won't ever do that. So uh what religions would thrive during the space age? Only Abrahamic religions. If the west wins in the extremely unlikely chance that India wins that will happen if India is a different entity than what it is right now. If today's India wins then you they will India will spread secularism in space. Yeah. So it doesn't look like Hinduism will spread in space. The way things are going the way India is going India has zero ambition in space and India is a this secular nation which rejects its own civilizational roots and origins which denies its civilizational roots so doesn't look like Hinduism is going to spread in space of course I would like it to but let's be practical and realistic as says your thoughts on India finally somebody asked me a question about the trade deal after more than an hour okay um what are my thoughts on the India US interim trade deal. I read many articles on it. I did not find anything about India not going to buy Russian oil. Well, that's the controversy, isn't it? First of all, what are my thoughts on the trade deal? Is it a fair balanced trade? See, first of all, it's not a trade deal. It's an interim framework. Uh let's let's see what the minister Sahab says once again. Mr. Poy, what did he tweet out about this? Let's see. Um okay under the decisive leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi GI India has reached a framework for an interim agreement with the US. It's a framework for an interim agreement. So it's not a trade deal. It's not even an interim trade deal. It's a framework for an interim agreement. Framework for interim agreement. That's what it is. Now um the question once again is u is it does it have anything about not buying Russian oil? Uh if you look at this joint statement that P go has tweeted out I could not see anything any reference to Russian oil it's two pages and uh there is absolutely nothing in the statement put out by P Go about Russian oil. Absolutely nothing about Russian oil whatsoever. But here's the deal and by the way here's the deal. So there's this uh there's this u executive order put out by the US president Shri Trump G and there's this white house uh statement over here modifying duty is to address threats to the US by the government of the Russian Federation. So if you look at this so this was uh this came out on February 6 go's uh statement came out on February 7. So this came out one day before PJ Go's tweet and if you go to sector section four of whatever this is monitoring and recommendations it says the white house statement says the secretary of commerce of the US in coordination with the secretary of state of the US and the secretary of treasury and any other senior official the secretary of commerce deems appropriate shall monitor whether India resumes directly or indirectly importing Russian Federation oil as defined in section 7 of executive order 1414329. time. If the Secretary of Commerce finds that India has resumed directly or indirectly importing Russian Federation oil, the Secretary of State in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the US Trade Representative Representative Darth Vader and everybody else uh shall recommend whether and to what extent I Donald Trump should take additional action as to India including whether I should reimpose the additional advalor rate of duty of 25%. % on imports or of articles of India. So the joint India US statement says nothing about Russian oil. But then this statement by the white house says that they will monitor whether India has resumed purchasing Russian oil either directly or indirectly. So this is pure arm twisting. The interim framework for the interim trade whatever arrangement between India and the US has put out in the joint India US statement tweeted by minister P go has nothing about Russian oil but separately the Americans are imposing these conditions these essentially arm twisting conditions on India and then when minister PJ go asked about Russian oil he I think he said asked the minister of external affairs Dr. Jashankar when Dr. Jashen was asked I think he said ask P go about Russian oil. So it looks like the government of India is in a tough spot. Uh the statements put out by the two nations about the trade interim framework trade thing. There's nothing about Russian oil. But Trump tweeted something the other day that India has committed to not buy Russian oil. So it looks like India has not agreed to this but the Americans are now postpacto insisting that India should not buy Russian oil otherwise once again the whole thing is off. So they are introducing this Russian oil requirement not buying Russian oil through the back door or through the front door or whatever and uh if India doesn't accept what the Americans saying then this trade agreement once again framework will again be washed out of will will not be implemented. So the Americans have arm twisted India. They are in the process of armresting India and India now has a very tough choice whether we accept this US demand that we no longer buy Russian oil or we lose this interim framework for this interim trade agreement. What should India do if India accepts American demands for whether we buy energy or not from a third party? That is the beginning of the slippery slope towards becoming a US vasal. In my opinion, India will most likely agree to US demands. What is the rational the logic behind this? The logic for India accepting this horrible American demand is that this Russian oil comes through tankers that that come from the North Sea. Okay. Uh where's the map? I'll show you the map. The Russian oil whether it is direct or indirect, it comes from where? Okay. It comes from the North Sea then okay over here uh into the Atlantic Ocean then through Gibralar into the Mediterranean Sea then all the way to Sis into the Red Sea through the straight of Babal Mandeb into the Gulf of Aden and into the western Indian Ocean into India that's how we are acquiring the Russian oil mostly then the Americans if they want they can choke this off. They can choke it off through military uh action. They can do that. So anyway, even if India doesn't accept this, the Americans can still choke off this Russian oil. So maybe India should just give up and accept the American demand. But if you do that, the Americans will sense blood and they'll now start insisting on other things slowly, step by step. And that is the slippery slope towards becoming an American vasal. And that's why I keep saying there is a significant non-trivial probability that in the next 5 years India will become a US vasal. I hope it doesn't happen of course but the probability of becoming vasal is higher than not becoming vasal in the next 5 years. The next 5 years are make or break for India and you can see that right now in action. Okay. Moan Sharma says thank you. Love listening to you. Thank you so much sir. Thank you indeed. Can you talk about pre-Abrahamic religions and cultures across the world map and please share book references authentic on the same pre-Abrahamic religions and cultures across the world. Well, we can do a world tour. Is that what you're suggesting? Let's see. Okay, let's let's look at the big regions of the world. Pre-Arabic religions in India. Obviously we had the various uh indigenous forms of what we uh of what we call Hinduism which includes all the various dharmic pants like Charvaka, Mimmansa, Vidanta, Bodha, Jana, this that everything all of that. So that is the subcontinent. All of it was Indic. It was all Hindu. Even Persia was Hindu before Zurastianism. Okay. And even Central Asia was Hindu before Buddhism. What about China? China had their own u u taoism and confucianism and eventually Buddhism which was also well it was a form of Hinduism because India did not merely export Buddhism to China. India exported Hinduism as well. It was done by Emperor Kaneshka. It is Kaneshka who who who exported Indian culture wholesale to China. And Kaneska only less than 1% of his coinage has Buddhist iconography. the rest is all Hindu or other gods. So, uh, so China was, you could say, polytheistic. So was Southeast Asia. After around 1,00 BC, Southeast Asia became Hinduized for a for the very long for a very long time. Uh, Japan, Shinto, eventually Shinto plus Buddhism. Uh, what is now Russia, all these territories, polytheistic cultures, Mongolia, you had Tangism. Tangism, it's called Tangorism. It's it's a polytheistic uh uh system. Once again, you have the sky father Tangri, the earth mother Umi, and all kinds of local gods and goddesses, forest spirits, the spirits of your ancestors and so on. So very polytheistic in nature. Mongolia and the Turk religion originally was also just like the religion of the Mongols. Same culture. Um in Siberia, you had various polytheistic faiths. Okay. uh in central Asia you had Hinduism then Buddhism and then eventually it became Abraham you have Islam now in Europe you had various uh local manifestations of the old Indo-Uropean religion okay which is well originally Hinduism in Greece you had Greek polytheism which again is very similar to Hindu Hinduism in Italy you had Roman polytheism which absorbed a lot of Greek elements in Saudi Arabia you had you had their own version of polytheism. Okay. In Mesopotamia once again you had various polytheistic practices like you know the worship of goddess Itar Inana uh various Bal gods and so on. In Africa you had African polytheisms which are all wiped out. Uh what else? What else? In Australia you had yeah the the indigenous Australian religion which I am not very familiar with but again polytheistic in nature. Um in the Americas you had various indigenous polytheistic faiths right and that's kind of a world tour from the pre-Abrahamic religious and cultural perspective. Book references I'm not really sure about book references. Uh I haven't done all my reading from books. I do a I'm sure I've studied a lot of research papers and whatnot. Uh book references I'm not sure if I can give you right now off the top of my head. I'm very bad at giving book book references unless I prepare in advance because I've got so many books mixed up in my head. I can't give you on the spot book references. Sorry for that. Okay. Sort of says, "Why does the universe allow consciousness? How does dead matter wake up?" Well, see there are two big mysteries that you are that you are synthesizing over here. The one my first mystery is the mystery of life and the second mystery is the mystery of consciousness. How do you define life? Living versus non-living. What's the boundary? What's the definition? I mean take take viruses for example. Viruses have characteristics of non-living beings, non-living things, but they also have characteristics of living things. Viruses are like crystals. They don't they don't achieve homeostasis with their environment. They don't achieve equilibrium with the with their environment or do they? They probably do actually. So they have uh elements they have characteristics of of non-living things but they also have DNA or RNA which is very very much a characteristic of living things. So we don't quite sure exactly where the dividing life line between life and non-life exist, right? What is the dividing line? That's also kind of gray area. Now consciousness, you're asking a great question. Why does the universe allow consciousness? Well, to answer this question from this question from a scientific perspective, I must first define what I mean by consciousness, right? I need to have a clear unambiguous definition of consciousness. Then we can talk about it from a scientific perspective. But what is the definition of consciousness in science? Do we have a clear definition of consciousness from a neuroscience perspective? We don't. Do we have a clear definition of consciousness from a physics perspective? We don't. Do we have a clear definition of consciousness from a information theory perspective? We don't. We don't have a scientific definition of consciousness. Let's say I have a black box inside which there is a consciousness. How do I define the characteristics of this consciousness? I don't know. We don't have a scientific definition of consciousness. So we can't discuss consciousness without delving into areas like philosophy and spirituality. You can't. It's not a scientific discussion at all. Now why does the universe allow consciousness? Well, if I had the answer, I would be one of the gods. I don't have the answer. We don't know. We don't know how does dead matter wake up. Um we don't know. These are big mysteries. How do you animate that dead matter? I mean we know that you know in the very early uh history of the earth at some point we had the emergence of life you know microorganisms um strotholytes possibly or whatever it was about 3.7 or 3.8 8 billion years before today possibly perhaps. How did that happen? Yeah, it's because you had the you had cell walls and you had DNA. Now where did DNA come from? These are big mysteries. You see, so we don't have the answer as to why does the universe allow consciousness? If I could give that answer, well, I deserve more than Nobel Prize. More than a Nobel Prize and so on. So these are these are these are mysteries that science cannot answer at this point in time. Sagnik Achara says it seems we have to a small extent bent the need to the superpower US via trade deal. If that is true is semiconductor something we should focus solely solely focus on for the next 10 years and get maximum benefits out of US relations. Look, when you have an agreement or or an interim framework for an agreement between two nations where one is way more powerful than than the other, then the agreement is going to be unequal. Okay? The more powerful nation will get the better part of the deal. That is natural. I mean, look at the tariffs that the US has imposed on various nations. It's imposing 18% on India but other nations are getting 19 20 25 whatever. So we are actually getting the the one of the best deals the Americans have given anybody. But of course it's unequal. No question about it. They say reciprocal 18% but I think there's more tariffs on India than than on the US. That's just the way things are. You can't expect a completely equal balanced agreement between India and the US. It's impossible. We live in the real world. I think it's it's a good deal overall. It's the best deal one could get. But now the Americans are introducing new conditions via the back door about not purchasing Russian oil and the Indian government seems to be really uncomfortable about this and they don't know what to say. So that's where we are. Dilemma for India. Uh if we accept that it's kind of walking us first steps down the slippery slope towards be becoming a vas possibly right. I hope it's not true. Um so to a to a small extent we have kind of a little you know given given in a little bit to the US but it's still a good good framework overall. Yeah I am sure there's a lot of criticism being being heaped upon the government of India for this right now. I don't think it's actually legitimate and valid. One of the issues that's happened is that Trump has heaped so many insults on India that any deal that he gives is going to be regarded with a lot of suspicion. Trump has said so many lies that nobody trusts him. These are the issues, right? When you have a president like Trump. Uh so yeah, now if this is true, is super semiconductor something we should solely focus on for the next 10 years and get maximum benefits out of US relations? The US will give you nothing when it comes to semiconductors. They will not give you any technology whatsoever. They want to extract from India, not give to India. If the trade deal is somewhat unbalanced, it means the US is extracting more than we can extract from them. Why will they give us some benefit in semiconductors? Why? Why we should we I I I totally agree that we should focus on u developing semiconductor technology but we will get no benefit from the US when it comes to this technology. We'll have to develop it entirely on our own. Okay. There's no free lunches in the world my friends nothing. So we're going to have to develop it on our own and we we are capable of that. We have s certain massive barriers to overcome like uh portal lithography machine technology and all that but you got to do the work. You've got to do it. Gora TV says, "What similarities do you draw between the Roman Empire and the United States of America? And do you see China as Carthage in some way?" Well, car the people of Carthage allegedly used to sacrifice children. I don't think the Chinese do any of that. So, okay. But, but yeah. Okay. Um, similarities between the Roman Empire and the United States of America. Well, all empires are the same, the same characteristics. They're hegemonic. The Romans, they practiced two, they practiced two forms of hedgemony. One is territorial hedgemony. They practiced two forms of what? They they they the Romans wielded power in two ways. Okay. One was territorial by by capturing the territory of various uh kingdoms and peoples. The second was by vasalizing kingdoms without actually capturing territory. Okay. So these are the two things the Romans did. But mostly it was by capturing territory and actually occupying the territory physically. The Americans have also done that and that's that's how they've expanded their nation so much by capturing so much territory that belong to the indigenous people. First of all the native Americans then the French then the Mexicans and so on. That's how they've built up such a big nation but the majority of their power is through versalizing other countries. So there are similarities, there are differences and so on, but overall both are empires. The Rome Roman Empire was an empire. The US is the current major empire. So yeah, you can drill down and see so many other similarities. Uh how do do I see China as Carthage in some way? No, I don't see China as Carthage. Carthage actually struck at Rome. Hannibal Barka invaded Rome. Okay. And he defeated the Romans in various battles including the battle of Kana. Was it battle of Kana in which he decimated um Roman legions? Uh battle of Canai. Canai. Uh second Punic War. Who fought the battle? On the one hand you had Hannibal Barka. Where do Hannibal Hannibal and Yeah. So Carthage won and this happened in Italy on Roman territory which means the the Carthaginians invaded Rome and defeated them on their own territory. You think the Chinese are capable of doing that to the US? No, they're not. So I don't see China as Carthage in some way. I don't. Ganapati says Manurian candidate Modi the new Mir Jaffer has sold India to the Anglo under a subsidiary alliance complete and unconditional support unconditional surrender to the US. He has been a US asset who was grown through something. Uh I don't agree with this. He has sold India to the Anglos really. So you're talking about the trade trade interim trade framework or whatever. A lot of people are saying this. I don't agree with that. I don't agree complete and unconditional support surrender to the US. I don't think so. Yeah, I disagree. It's a good trade trade framework or whatever. Of course, the US will bring in additional terms and conditions because they are the way more powerful nation. And you can't blame Modi for that. Can you blame Modi for the US being 25 times more power than powerful than India? He didn't blame Modi for that. Did Modi make the US that powerful? He did not. Right. US asset and all. Look, I I I disagree with these things. Okay. Soldier boy says, "Please take my question from your compost." Right now, we are only doing super chats. So, right now, it won't be possible because I will have to go and dig up some stuff from God knows where. uh right now that's not possible but in the future I I'll try and look it up and maybe I can take it in the new in the next live stream where you have asked u that are in which I pick questions from the comments right now won't be possible this is only super chat today all right sir Gora TV says despite the US defeating USSR by infiltrating so deeply into the Soviet Russian system how did they fail to prevent Putin's rise to power they misunderestimated Putin as George W Bush would say they misunderestimated Putin. They thought he's just another bureaucratic kind of guy, you know. So the Americans were very were very happy with Boris Yelson, the drunkard. He stumb he he dragged the US he dragged Russia down horribly. Um lost the first Chuchchin war. It was a disaster. And then so the US so so Yelin was essentially an American agent. Okay. and Yelin approved Putin coming to power. So the and Putin had this track record of being this boring bureaucratic kind of person who just took orders who did not ever take any real leadership roles. Putin was just a just a guy who carried out orders and he was really good at that. He was a really efficient administrator but always under someone's leadership. So that's why Putin was chosen that okay he's going to be the next yes man for the US and he's a great brilliant executor of orders. That's what they imagined. So that's why Putin was approved and Putin turned out to be something entirely different. Yeah. So the Americans misunderestimated Putin. They thought he'll be another yes man. Turned out to be the exact opposite and good for Russia. I would say good for Russia. K23040 says Bangladesh elections are coming up in a few days. If Jamaat were to win, how would it affect India in the long run? Great increase illegals in West Bengal. Look, Bangladesh is now East Pakistan. If Jamaat wins, Bangladesh will remain East Pakistan. Makes no difference. At this point in time, it doesn't matter who wins the election in Bangladesh. Bangladesh is now a US vasal. And whoever wins the next election will continue to do whatever the Americans want them to do. If Jamaat wins or somebody else wins, it makes no difference to us. So in India we have this habit of of obsessing over Pakistan and Bangladesh and analyzing things deeply it makes no difference who wins. Bangladesh is now an American vasal and they will do whatever the Americans tell them. Jamaat or no Jamaat that's the thing um will jamat winning increase illegals in West Bengal? No matter who wins, if we control our borders, then the illegals will not come into India. Right? I don't blame Jamaat or Bangladesh for the illegal infiltration into India. I blame us. I blame the government of India and paramilitary forces on the borders for the illegal infiltration of Bangladeshes into India. Who is in charge of uh safeguarding India's borders with Bangladesh? I expect it should be the border security force, right? BSF which is not the Indian army. It's a paramilitary force. What is a paramilitary force? It's a police force. So BSF is not Indian military. It's not Indian army. It's a paramilitary force and they have I believe been in charge of safeguarding our borders with Bangladesh, patrolling our borders. So the government of India needs to look into needs to introspect how come so many Bangladesh are in India. In 2016 Shri Kiran Riu had said in parliament that there are about 20 20 million illegal Bangladeshi infiltrators in India. That's two 2016 10 years ago. How many do we have today? Why is it so easy for Bangladeshes to enter India? So I don't blame Bangladesh or Jamaat or whoever for that. India is to blame. India's government is to blame. How many illegals have been deported back into Bangladesh the past decade? I wonder what are we up to really. Rohani says thanks for all you do. The streets will never forget forget you. Thank you so much sir. Thank you so much. Mkhov says I'm 18. I've always loved math but did not get good scores. The school's way step marking etc. I took it personally. It hurt my ego. Okay. I started avoiding it out of fear of failure or to protect my ego. This hardwired my brain for a decade. I badly want to reverse this. How do I do it? You know some of the best mathematicians historically did not get good scores in exams in mathematics. Because if you want to be a real mathematician, let's say what does a real mathematician do? A real mathematician has to take a big problem problem and break it down into its components and then you need to have this long chain of thought. You to sustain that in your brain or or on paper and it's a long process of solving big mathematical problems. To get good marks in school, you to small to solve the small problems, right? Uh so if you get got bad marks or whatever in school, it doesn't mean you will not be good at mathematics. Uh if you got bad marks in school, it means that maybe some fundamentals were not right for you. So you need to go back and revisit those fundamentals. Mathematics actually if you do the fundamentals right step by step by step if you do it that way it's the easiest subject in the world. So you want to re reverse this thing the of of you know this fear of failure of mathematics. How do you do it? You do it by going back to the fundamentals and basics. If you so let's say you are you last studied mathematics let's say at college level. Okay, but you want to revisit mathematics and you are you want to get overcome this fear of failure and all that. What you do is you go back to your maybe eighth certain mathematics and build your knowledge and and skills all the way up from that level onwards. Maybe wherever it is that you have a deficiency that's what you do and then you will find that it's easy to do mathematics once you start building up the skills and and concepts step by step you'll find it's easy and that fear of failure will disappear. So you have to revisit the root cause of where the fear came from and you confront the fear head on. Lock eyes with the fear with the thing that caused the fear and and and get rid of that. So that's how you do it. You will not be able to get rid of fear by avoiding the thing that that scares you. You've got to lock horns with it and you've got to dismantle it. That's how you u reverse the fear of failure. Gapati says in 2016 ISRO budget was $1 billion. FCST budget was $9 billion. In 2026, ISRO's budget is $1.6 billion. SCST budget is $40 billion. I no longer feel obligated to serve this raashtra. I understand how you feel. I'm not sure if I don't know if these figures are correct. I'm not sure where you got them from. They may possibly be I'm not sure what is the SCST budget tax actually. But um yeah, I I I understand what you're trying to say and obviously it is dispiritating. It is discouraging and I I I feel you. I feel you. Amisha says why no minister is giving clarity on Russian oil? That's a good question. Who are the ministers concerned in this? It is Shri Push Goyel and Shri Dr. Jashankar. These are the two ministers. Um Sharif Goyel what what is his ministry is trade right commerce minister of commerce and industry so that's that obviously is the ministry which will be engaged in negotiations with the US to hammer out an interim framework for an interim trade deal and the other ministry obviously is the foreign ministry Dr. Jashankar now both have been asked about Russian oil so first of all the Indian prime minister tweeted this the Mr. Go tweeted this. There was no statement about Russian oil whatsoever concerning this interim framework for this interim trade deal with the US. So it looks like India has been caught by surprise by this America by the Americans springing a trap on India. Right? And then when Mr. PJ go was asked he said please refer this question to the foreign ministry. When Dr. Jashen was asked he said please refer the question to the commerce ministry. So it looks like there is a lack of clarity. India has been caught unawares apparently. So the question so the answer as to why no minister is giving clarity is probably because we have not reached a decision yet. It probably means the government of India has not has been caught unawares. It has been surprised. It has been ambushed by the Americans. Maybe the Americans gave asurances and then after giving asurances they sprang sprung this sprang the trap on India. So a decision now has to be made by the government of India probably by the prime minister of India and until the decision is taken probably no clarity will come out. So if no minister is given clarity right now it means that the decision has not been taken most likely. Most likely not 100% sure but most likely. So it looks like we don't know right now what decision we're going to take but eventually we're going to have to take a decision either we accept the American demand the arm twisting which will embolden the Americans for making more demands now or we resist and say no which means this trade deal gets torn up and thrown into the waste bin but how can you do that when you have celebrated already the government of India has been this in this celebratory code we have achieved this great fantastic thing. Now if you say no to the Russian Russian oil thing then the Americans will say that Modi has sabotaged the trade deal that will be a disaster politically which means you have to accept the trade deal but the trade deal now comes with this condition which wasn't there earlier of not buying Russian oil anymore. So looks like India is going to have to agree to this American arm twisting demand of not buying Russian oil which will impact our relationship with Russia potentially. That's where India stands. So are we going to start walking down the slippery slope towards Basalhoud is the question. Vihang Kuran says uh for a student serious about AI and research does an MTech or MS in AI from IIT's IS provides strong value today or is going abroad clearly better thank you for creating the history course I thoroughly enjoyed you very welcome so you are serious about AI and research and the question you have is do I do an MTech or MS in AI from I IT or Indian Institute of Science or should I do it from should I do it going abroad? My answer to you is very simple. Do not look if you can afford going abroad, you should definitely go abroad. But if you're not go abroad, if you would to take this horrible loans and it will ruin your family's finances. If that is the case, see most people for most people to go to the US or abroad, you need to take big loans that you can't afford and then you have to keep paying them paying these loans for loans for years or decades. If that is the case, I would say don't do that. But if you can afford going abroad, you should choose going abroad because you will get better value in a nation like the US for example doing research in AI AI compared to even the top Indian institutes. So going abroad as long as it's a a highquality US college or university is clearly better. That is my honest opinion and honest recommendation but only if you can afford it. Don't destroy your feminist finances because that's a problem right. So yeah all the best we all the best to you sir all the best. Moan Sharma says thanks love listening to you. Thank you so much sir. Could you talk about prehabraic cultures and religions across the world? Okay I I did do this right. I think this question is repeated somehow but uh yeah uh we I just took this a while ago. Yeah. Uh Raki Ganwani says, "Thank you, sir, for understanding new subat." Thank you so much, Raki G and welcome to this channel. Thank you very much. Pratib Kumar Roy says, "There's a statue of Enlil Enlil in the Epstein island, ancient Mesopotamian Mesopotamian god. He was also known as Baal or Yahweh that accepted child sacrifices. Jews claim not to worship Malik. So this god Malik, this entity called Malok was allegedly a god that that the Canonites worshiped. Maybe it was a form of Yahweh or whatever. I'm not very sure about that. But the the Hebrew Bible claims alleges that the Canonites used to worship this creature called Yahweh. Sorry, not Yahweh. a Moolok. And Moolok was associated with associated with child sacrifices. And the descendants of the Canonites were the were the were the Phoenicians who set up Carthage and they allegedly they also did child sacrifices in in Carthage at the Tophet. And you actually find evidence of that like large quantities of evidence of that sort of thing. So, I don't know who this Enlil god is, but uh yeah, this Epstein thing. So, look, the Canonites, they date back to maybe 1,000 BC or something, right? Maybe before that. So, looks like in their culture, in this western culture, this has been kind of happening behind the scenes for at least 3,000 years. this all the gutliness associated with the Epstein island, this pedophilia, this this eating of babies and oh god knows what kind of horrific things are coming out of this. This is your western culture. Okay. Gapati says Israeli tourists were caught starting wildfires in Argentina. Israeli tourists are also flooding Himach Pradesh ever since natural calamities like fires, flood floods, landslides have increased. Okay, I am not aware of this. I'm not aware of this. So, okay. But yeah, I have not heard of these things. Edmmo Dante. Oh, you have been reading the account of Monteto, have you? Edmmo Dante. Well, I am very pleased for Edmma Donte because he did eventually get his revenge. So, biblical Helodorus sent to Sucus IV to loot temple treachery is struck down by angels. Decades later, there's a Vishnu pillar erected in Bhat by Heliodoris. A wild coincidence. What are my thoughts? I have no thoughts about this. I am not aware of this. Who was the biblical Heliodoris? Let's see. Uh biblical biblical Helodorus. Doris. Who was biblical Heliodoris? 2nd century BC salucid chancellor under King Salucas IV Filipoper. Okay. Known from two Makabe 3 for his failed attempt to rob the temple in Jerusalem and so on. Okay. Uh now pillar. So this is the what u century BC. Okay. Okay. Now pillar ofodorus. So where is this from? This is 113 BC. Oh, fascinating. That's the second century BC. And this guy was from the second century BC. Fascinating. Is this the same guy? That's really interesting. Heliodoris minister. It looks like this is a different person. Yeah, maybe the name Heliodoris may have been a common name at the time among the Seucid people. The Salucids were Greeks of course. So maybe it was a common common name you know like John. John is a very common name right in in among the Christians. Um is this a coincidence? Wild coincidence? Maybe it's a coincidence. Clearly this seems to be like two different people, right? Looks like it's two different people. Probably not the same person. uh because a Vishnu pillar being erected by a heliodoras clearly that person was a civilized person dharmic person they would not go and loot the uh treasury of the temple of the Jews right and he was in India Judea was way way way to the west it's not like he could hop onto a plane or a helicopter and go to Judea and return right so probably different people says how just 150,000 British were able to rule over 300 million Indians. What structural, religious or social factors made this possible? It happened over time. So the British, how were they able to succeed where the uh Spaniards and the Portuguese could not? So the British were great at controlling trade routes. They were great at controlling ports and doing all that. But they also did things that the Portuguese and the Spaniards did not. is that they instituted bureaucracies and used bureaucracies to control nations. They knew how to divide and create fissures among nations among the people of the nation that they were targeting and slowly over time take control. So the British arrive in India when 1600 1610 right that's when they set up their fort in Surat and they finally take over India in the 1800s right 18 when was the second Anglo Maratha war when does it end uh second Anglo Maratha war uh that is when 1805 okay so 1610 to 1805 that takes them 200 years And eventually so it it took them more than 200 years to start to to to establish this form of control over Indians. So their policy of divide and rule, divide and conquer plus their incredibly efficient bureaucracy in which they co-opted Indians to work for them. All of these things, you know, that's what made this possible. So eventually the Indians were and and of course the famines, right? They engineered hundreds of artificial famines in India. Indians if you are if you don't have if you can't eat where will you have the strength to fight the British. So all these factors put together allowed the British to rule Indians and eventually they in this this mallayian education system which still continues right which indoctrinates Indians and and endows Indians with this deep sense of inferiority that the white man is better than us. Malik Malik sahib right then Indians will will will obey orders like dogs obey humans. So these are the things lots of these factors came together. The British were great at this. I mean you have to admire the the evil right I mean in some sense it's admirable what they were able to do. Yoshiati says it makes sense at least for Russians to unmask individuals of the deep state to popularize unknowns. Why has it not happened? Are they afraid of repercussions? Look, you can't unmask without proof, right? If you want to unmask somebody, you have to provide proof. Otherwise, you will be called a conspiracy theorist. And to provide proof, proof is going to be hidden. So, you have to to provide proof, you have to to establish long chains of evidence that most people will not have the patience to dig into and understand. people who are hidden deep inside. All these things to uncover them is not easy because you have to provide long chains of connections to actually establish that this person is actually controlling that or whatever and for the ordinary human being understanding that long chain of evidence is impossible because you need a certain amount of IQ for that. So then what you do you keep quiet, right? That's the thing we hung Quran says from your experience how can a student gorge whether they have the aptitude and temperament required for a research career how do you do it you you try researching something you try taking on a research project at whatever level you are so let's say you are at the uh in India what they call the undergraduate level bachelor's degree level right right let's say you are in physics or mathematics you try and solve a problem maybe a problem that's already been solved but you try and solve it your own in a different way let's say if you are in mathematics uh try and derive the m Mclloren series from scratch a priority from first principles what is the Mclloren series beautiful okay beautiful I mean Mathematics is beautiful, right? If you see the Mclloren series and if you understand what this says, you can see how beautiful mathematics is. So how do you derive this from scratch or something else? How do you derive how do you prove how do you derive the Taylor series expansion from scratch? You try and do these things and see if you are able to do it. If you're able to do these things, you will know that maybe you have the aptitude for research. So how do you understand whether you have the aptitude and temperament research required for research? by trying these things out and see if you enjoy it or see if it is painful for you. Right? That's how you find out. Okay. All the best. Gapati says in many of your videos you treat you you claim that Jews were never mistreated by India in India. Try googling Kadavat Achi. Enjoy. This gentleman seems to be very pleased with what he is trying to achieve here. Let's see. Let's see. Let's see. Kadavat Achi. What is kadavat ai? Kadavat ai lady of the riverside. I am not going to open Reddit links and and and random blogs. Oh, legend has it that around 1165 AD there was a wealthy Jewish widow and blah. So some kind of legend based on some rumor. I am not even wasting my time with this BS. Thank you very much sir. Please understand what reliable sources are. Okay come on enjoy. Bye-bye. Seriously. Vive Singh says hi sir do you think it's a good idea to set up townships for our public sector unit employees and the families with all facilities within this can make them more productive. I am there with syrup townships. Do don't you have townships? I mean you have old townships where people from government sectors they all live together in things and all. This has been tried in India. This has been tried. Will it make people more productive? No, you don't need to do all this to make people productive. you have to make some reforms and cut out some of the things that key that um some of the problems which which I don't mention here. So putting people together in townships with their families and all all facilities will that make them more productive? Not necessarily. This has been done in India won't make much of a difference. Loita says what are 10 problems that India should solve immediately? How to solve India's education system? Okay, once again it's a good question. I'm going to give you references. So what we do is this. We go to this YouTube channel. This one, my YouTube channel that we are watching right now. We go to the live tab. We go to oldest and then we go down. Now, if you want to solve India's education system, watch episode 28, 30 and 31 of Askabit. I have explained everything in the greatest of detail. This is 4 years ago it was streamed. it still is 100% relevant today. That's how you solve India's education system. Watch those um three episodes because see the answer is not something I can give in 5 minutes. You're going to have to watch those three episodes to understand what the problems are and what the solutions what solutions are required. Okay. Uh 10 problems India should solve immediately. First I'll give you a few. I don't know if I can give you 10 m at this point in time but one is illegal infiltration. Second is all the illegal infiltrators who are currently within India they need to be deported right that um solve what else the education system obviously which is a disaster trash garbage terrible education system. Um next reservations are fine as long as they are on the basis of uh economic condition of families not cast eliminate cast entirely right that needs to be fixed. Uh what else? All the all the alleged corruption that may exist in India that needs to be dealt with and so on. There are many such problems. Okay. Pratip Kumar Roy says about the four pillars city of London Washington DC Vatican and Israel also about white black leader of Jesuits and gray popes I am not aware of any of these things um clearly you're talking about some theories that people some people may have but I am not aware of the details so I can't say about that what is white black leader of Jesuits great popes I'm not aware of these things you see there are things that I also don't know about and I don't know about this I'm very sorry sorry sir Gora TV says in a hypothetical scenario where you are the supreme commander of India with three which what key strategic pivots would you prioritize in your first five years of leadership and where would you take India if I was in a hypothetical situation where I am the supreme commander of India what would I do first deport all illegals out of India immediately number one that's what I would do second I would embark on a 20-year reformation program of the Indian education system based on what I've already said in the past that is critical. Number three, I would hike up the percentage of the GDP or the budget that is allocated to defense, right? Uh that's what I would do. How many things are these? Illegals uh GDP defense. Third is uh education system, right? Uh fourth, I would try and be as atman as possible. I I would make India as atundar as possible. Technologically, we need technological sovereignty. So I would focus on AI would focus on semiconductors that's things we are doing right now quantum computing and also the basic stuff right the the manufacturing that needs to happen in India ease of doing business very important next I would end reservations based on cast I would annihilate cast completely complete annihilation of cast the word cast or any cast whatever references we have in in India's official documentation whether it is your birth certificate or a death certificate or school certificate or whatever remove all references to cast and I I would continue maybe you know reservations maybe for another 20 years purely on the basis of a family's financial condition nothing else and you can't have reservations forever maybe 20 years maximum right these are some of the things I would do I would focus on the Indian space program I would make India a major participant in the space race right I would have India build at least 50 more submarines I would have India build 300 more naval assets apart from the 50 submarines. These are some of the things I would do and I would be very very very harsh on corruption. The harshest you can imagine. These are the things I would do. Some of some of the things yeah Pratep Kumar Roy says about the 13 families in the crown. I am not aware of the 13 families sir. I'm not aware of these. Uh some link them to ancient Romans. Do they really controlled everything? Also about the financial industrial complex, Black Rockck, Vanguard, and Straits state street. See, I don't know about these 13 families. I don't know even one of these families. I haven't studied or read about this. The crown, which crown? Which crown? You're talking about the British crown. Why is that the only crown? So, yeah, I don't know. Some link them to ancient Romans. I'm not aware of that. Do they really control everything? I'm not aware of that. Financial industrial complex that does exist. Of course, Black Rockck, Vanguard, Vanguard, Street, are they connected to some ancient families? I am not aware of that. I'm not aware of these things. I'm very sorry, but I am not aware of these things. I haven't studied this or read about this. So, can't say can't say. I'm very sorry. Sid Di says India should allow dual citizenship. model could be renounce, live in India again, prove commitment, regain citizenship, keep foreign one as well. Indian origin people can also get dual like that. I will have to respectfully disagree with this. You can have dual citizenship, you can allow dual citizenship only if you are the global hedgeim. If you are a weak relatively weak nation like India, the fourth most powerful nation, the third most powerful is like four times more powerful than us. And the US is like 25 times more powerful than us. In that case, the US, if you allow dual citizenship, the US can infiltrate you and even the Chinese can infiltrate you in all kinds of ways. And uh you'll have people who have dual citizenship and who are working for the more powerful and the richer nation. Even and yeah sure let's say we have this model you renounce live in India again prove commitment then you regain this dual citizenship which nobody will accept first of all nobody has a time to do that but even if you did that then yeah okay live in India prove commitment for 5 years and then start spying then what happens it doesn't work it's not practical that's my point a Avin Shukla has become a new YouTube member. Your name is super confusing, sir. But anyway, thank you so much for becoming a member. I really appreciate it. Welcome to the channel's membership. Thank you. Gapati says, "Mother Terresa was the OD OG Jeffrey Epstein." Well, yeah. I mean, the things if you want to learn the truth about this person Teresa, I have a book recommendation. See, for for a change, I remember a book. It's a it's got a really interesting name. Okay. The missionary position. The missionary position. Mud tisa and theory in practice. It's by Christopher Hitchens. It was published in 1995. The missionary position by Christopher Hitchens in which Christopher Hitchens exposes this person thoroughly. You see, you have to if I say it, you won't believe it. But if a white guy says it, you'll believe it. Right? So that's why I'm giving you the this reference from this book written by a white guy. So now we'll believe it. Fields strong man says you have said Roose won't report actual weapon count of Sikun. What's a seun? Roose won't report actual weapon count of Sikun. So how can we trust the statistics on oil imports like chin from Iran? You said 5 to 15%. Can two countries not have under the table dealing of oil imports? Of course, you can have it, but they can still figure it out. There are ways of figuring things out. There is something called a black fleet, a shadow fleet in which you have tankers that will do refueling in the middle of the ocean and then put a new flag and then go and do something. You can still figure things out. Okay? You can. You don't have to trust somebody's numbers and figures and statistics they put out. You can actually track in real time every single tanker that's carrying oil in the ocean and you can see what's happening where I mean it's possible in real time. So you don't you don't have to take anybody at their word but you can still figure out what's happening. So that's how you can figure out that this nation it claims to not purchase oil from so and so nation but actually it is doing it indirectly and yeah that sort of thing. Okay. Dark Side of the Moon, DSOTM. That's a great album, isn't it? How might India incompetent feudal elites fixated on exploiting only cheap labor or R&D good infra doit to geopolitical irrelevance and US was by insisting that India not doesn't become technologically sovereign? Let's say you have a hypothetical scenario in which you have you know an incompetent feudal elite bureaucrat or or minister hypothetically who says India should never develop sovereign AI models. India should become a consumer of foreign AI. India should build application layers on top of the the base LLMs and whatnot. So India will should use foreign AI systems and build applications on top of that. Well, that's one way of making India completely irrelevant technologically. That's one example. There are so many other examples of other ways of doing it. So, ensure that India only imports high-tech items. India doesn't manufacture or produce any of that. India should to ensure that India doesn't do any R&D in in technology, right? R&D budget keep it very low. Import all the cutting edge defense equipment from other countries. Don't don't fund the jet engine program. Allocate very small amounts of money to quantum computing research to AI research. So many ways of doing it, right? So that's how you become geopolitically irrelevant. You become eventually someone's masal so many ways of doing it. And all of this put together dooms you to mediocrity and massage. Suhin Rey says, "As a student then as a student, how can I bring nationalism and cultural pride? As a student, as an individual, how can you be nationalistic and have cultural pride? By learning about your nation, by being proud of the achievements that our ancestors have had. By being proud of the greatness of our culture. I mean, today the the standards are so low, right? Today we all we have to say that we are we we don't have a culture of of pedophilia and cannibalism that's all the the standards are so low now we are way above that so that how can you have other people do it I'm not sure about that as as as an individual you can talk to your friends and family and whatever you learn about your culture your nation you can share those ideas and thoughts and and those facts with your family and with your friends and that's how you can make them also gradually feel proud that's what you can do okay Pratep Kumar Roy says about the downfall of Bengal is the left responsible about the downfall of Bengal see Bengal the British they colonized Bengal first right they occupied Bengal first of all the regions of India they first set set down roots in Bengal and the British wrote about Bengal that it was the richest province of India And obviously Bengal has this great glorious past, great culture, great kings, all of that. So Bengal is to be so great and the British ruined it thoroughly. But still if you look at let's say the year 1940, Kolkata and Harra were greater than Mumbai and Chennai put together. That was then Bombay and Madras. The population of Kolkata plus Hara was bigger probably than Bombay and Madras put together. These are the pop pre-colonial the colonial names of these cities. Right? Today it is Mumbai and Chennai. So Kolkata was still at the time a major industrial city. It was the engine that drove the Indian economy. And then look at Kolkata today. who did this? So, Kolkata was the engine of Bengal and of India. Who did this? I suppose it was the left that de-industrialized Bengal. So, it's it's been a tragic tragic fall for Bengal, right? From being one of our greatest regions to what it is today. Okay. Feel strong man says you YouTube is a YouTube is a sob platform. I spent 22 minutes trying to type the word nuclear. I hope you don't have this word banned on your channel. Absolutely not. Why would I ban the word word nuclear? It's not a word that's banned on this channel. So, well, you tried you spent 22 minutes trying to type this word. Uh, what can I say? It's it's a I there's nothing I can do about that. I'm sorry that you had this experience. Yeah, YouTube has its own peculiarities for sure. Indeed. Okay. The scorpion king says, "America is the last religious western nation. Christianity is collapsing like zorostranism in the west. This will hinder Christianity globally as it will be associated with poor African nations rather than the west." Well, Christianity has to survive somehow, right? So, it will seek new places where they can poach souls. They are looking for India. India is the is one of the major targets for these Christian converters, isn't it? You have industrial scale conversions happening in India in certain states. And the government of India is allowing this to happen blightly unaware or aware of whatever it is. Yeah. So yeah, India is a poor nation similar to many African nations. So maybe Christianity for a while will be associated with poor nations. Now unlike Africa, India will grow economically. So maybe in 50 years time, India will be the biggest economy and it'll be a Christian nation. Then Christianity will once again be glorious. Yeah. So America is the last religious western nation. If you look at the European nations, the western European nations, there's very little religiousness left there. So yeah, Christianity is mostly gone. Uh the US has pockets of Christianity. You have this very very very uh the MAGA folks are all Christians aren't they? And uh you have Mexico which is kind of Christian to some extent. But yeah major Christian western nation US. Yeah. So maybe the next major Christian nation will be India. Yeah possible. Namit Rana says as India, China and Russia only left for Anglos. Will Russia supply a few nukes to Iran to counter Egypt Saudi develop nukes? Will it disrupt Anglo's plan? Okay. Once again, India, China and Russia are only left for the left for the Anglo. Well, even Iran is left. Will Russia supply a few nukes to Iran? To counter Egypt? To counter Egypt? And to counter Egypt, Saudi develop nukes. And to counter Egypt, Sa I'm not sure what is exactly what you're saying. Okay. The one question I understand is will Russia supply a few nukes to Iran. It's unlikely, but not entirely impossible. It's unlikely, but not impossible. Maybe it's one way to have Iran survive a potential regime change operation or potential invasion by the US. It's a dangerous step. Of course, it will be regarded by the Americans as a major provocation, but I suppose Russia could do that, right? If Russia does that, it will definitely disrupt the any any plan that the like you say Anglos may have of invading Iran. It's a possibility. I think it's less likely but not zero percentage likelihood. So yeah, it's possible possible. Okay says PDF alia can be in DNA. What does science say? I don't know. I have never studied the science of PDF behavior. So I have no idea. Can it be in DNA? I that's a pretty I I don't know. I I have absolutely no knowledge of this. I have thankfully never had to study or research this stuff. So I don't know what science says. I can't say. I'm very sorry. It's like asking can homosexuality be there in your DNA? Are some people more genetically predisposed for homosexuality? I am not sure. I'm not sure. I don't know. This is a subject that's beyond my scope of understanding. Sorry. Harish Sharma says, "You think decline of the West Indies cricket could be because it's not a single country and feeling of patriotism is not there. Plus, there's a lot of there are a lot of issues between the cricket board and the players." There have been issues between the cricket board and players. I remember uh DH Ramdin once uh hit a century and then put out this you know he came with this with this message slogan yay na wave talk y wave talk n or something and there have been many issues between the cricket board and the players the I think uh Chris Gail had issues with with the cricket board and other things again West India is not a single country it's a bunch of nations yeah a bunch islands with which lack a common identity that's been an issue as well. But look from the 1970s, late '7s all the way to the early '90s, the West Indies were invincible despite not being a single country. So being a single country or not is not the issue. It's about the decline of standards in the players, in the leadership and also on the cricket board. That's what has caused the issues with western disc cricket. A vi ain shukla says love love love whatever small contribution you're doing for the country. Would love to collaborate and do it 5x using AI visual medium mailed you Jahind. Okay I'll check my email. Thank you very much. Thank you so much once again for the encouragement and I'll check out your email. Thank you very much sir. Aaron says, "Congress and BJP have exploited people with unfulfilled promises. Do you think we can get a new party which can change the system and help us be a superpower?" The first thing I would say is India should stop using the word superpower in Vishwaguru for the next 20 years. Now about these various political parties with unfulfilled promises, it's possible. I typically don't comment about internal domestic politics of India. uh so I'll not comment about these unfulfilled promises of various parties but do I think we can get a new party which can change the system well theoretically it's possible in practice it's next to impossible cuz forming a new party and actually gaining power takes years if not decades it's really really hard and you need a lot of money for that tremendous amounts of money really hard very very hard for for ordinary people to do that. So yeah, that's the dilemma that India is in now. Suga Suga R says, "Is it even worth to get married in 2026 as a man when everything is stacked against you? Laws are not protecting you or are even against you. Look, it is still worthwhile to get married as long as you have a person as you have a partner who's reliable, who is not someone who will gain the system and and eventually throw you under the bus. There are still good people in the world, right? There still are good girls, good good women in the world. You got to find the right person. Find a p person with the right values, right? Not somebody who's a gold digger. So yeah, it's it's definitely a little more danger like considerably more dangerous today as a male if you end up with the wrong person. You you stand to lose a lot. But it still is worth getting married. Okay? It's it's part of the human experience that you you got to have. Marriage is the foundation of society. The family is the unit of society, not the individual, unlike what the West would like you to believe. So you've got to continue that. You've got to continue the traditions of our ancestors. You got to carry on your lineages. So you've got to do it, but you've got to do it more carefully. Now it certainly is worth getting married. So don't get discouraged. You've got to look for the right person. And at the at a young age, it's difficult to find the right person because you don't have have any experience of wisdom. for that you may have to rely on your family perhaps to help you out with that. Anyway, yeah, so all the best. Do get married but to the right person. Dir Kamat says, "How exactly do the middle classes and common masses rise up against the elites bolstered by AI and genetic engineering transhumanism? Is there any hope?" The hope is that See, when it comes to elites bolstered by AI and genetic engineering and trans humanism and all that, we're talking about the American and Western elites. What can the middle classes and common masses of the West do about this? Precious little, precious little. The hope is a non-western culture will rise and possibly eventually win where you don't have elites who seek to subjugate everybody where you don't have elites who are PDF files and cannibals and whatnot. Right? So hopefully a civilized nation wins this race, this technological race. Hopefully. Do we have any civilized nations around us? I'm not sure but let's see. Hanish Sharma says, "Do you did or do you ever have the interest in visiting all the countries in the world?" Oh, I would love to travel across the world and visit every single country. I love traveling. Yeah. I'm not sure if I'll visit all the countries in the world during this lifetime of mine, but if I can, I would certainly do that. Yeah. Okay. Pratik Kumar Roy says someone mentioned Mother Teresa and Epstein link. Dark history of Bengal in the 1980s. Last year some doctor died in RG car. Maybe she knew too much. Modern Moolok is active through wars and epidemics it seems. Yeah, I'm not aware of this doctor who died in whatever that is. Arjikar, a lady doctor. She knew too much. Okay, I don't know about that. Dark history of Bengal in the 1980s. I hear that Bengal was the source of this trade in human skeletons in the 1980s and there seems to be some Teresa connection there also perhaps uh there something came out. Okay. uh Bengal 1980s skeleton trade. Kolkata was the center of a massive legally murky and eventually illicit international human skeleton trade. Kolkata based exporters were the world's leading suppliers of anatomical specimens with an estimated 2.4 4 million human skeletons and skulls exported from India between 1947 and 1985. Would you believe it? Officially sourcing unclaimed bodies from police and hospital morgs. The massive demand led to the grave robbing of cemeteries, bodies being taken for rivers, and god knows what else was happening. The industry faced a major scandal in March 1985 when a trader was arrested for attempting to export 1,500 child skeletons. Okay. So there this and the missionaries of charity were were were based in Kolkata was it? There's a lot of dirt that's been hidden away. Yeah. Hyphen says, "If money didn't exist, what would rich mean?" Well, if money did not exist, being rich would mean that you have control over large quantities of resources, way more than other people. So, money is money is a substitute for resources, isn't it? With money, you can buy resources. So, if you did not have money, then being rich would mean you have control over resources. That's what being rich would mean. Resources. What kind of resources? Maybe land, land, uh oil, gas, minerals, all of that. That sort of resources, you know, human capital and so on. Gapati says, "Why do many people associate Hinduism with vegetarianism especially in the north? Here in Tamil Nadu we have a p a habit of sacrificing goats and pigs and offer them to the to the di and later consumed as prasad. Well it's it's a long story. I think it dates back about 2 and a half thousand years. Before that there was no compulsion or or any any of this association of Hinduism with ainsa and vegetarianism. Then what happened is Buddhism see both the dharma was suddenly made into a big thing by emperor Ashok and then there was this this uh this competition for which whether Buddhism becomes bigger than the other other dharmic parts. So the practitioners of Buddhism used to taunt brahinss as animal killers because you had humans sorry not human you had animal sacrifice in Hinduism right obviously various yagnas and whatn not there are sacrifices of animals. So brahinss used to be taunted as as animal killers and evil people and all by the by Buddhists. So brahinss made this practical decision that we will become complete vegetarianis vegetarians that gives us the upper hand over the Buddhists because the Buddhists still uh ate animals but not as much as used to be that sort of thing. So, so that's why Brahmans became tactically vegetarians and that tradition has continued not all across India but in various parts of India and that's how Hinduism got associated with vegetarianism but various Hindu communities I mean they eat meat and there's nothing about not eating meat in any of the way I mean at least in the rigida the rigida I mean the rigida is the foundation of Hinduism doesn't say don't eat meat. It says you cannot kill cows and you can't kill humans. That's what it says. It doesn't say you can't eat horse meat. It doesn't say you can't eat other forms of meat. It doesn't say that, right? And we have all these traditions of of sacrificing various animals. Pashubali it's called, right? It's definitely a part of Hinduism. It it makes some people um uncomfortable. That's okay. It is what it is. Hinduism is a very broad thing, right? With so many different practices. Okay. Sid Dav says, "Have you read the Quran? Quran claims Alexander the Great Dulkar was appointed by Allah to build giant wall to contain evil tribes, Gog and Magog opinion. I have not the least understanding of this. I have not read the the Quran. So I I'm not aware of this. Um yeah sorry this is beyond my understanding. Pratar Dhana says strong China in Russia India's interest um strong China is it in Russia's interest in India's interest that's that's the dilemma we have today right neither Russia nor nor India can trust China but if China becomes way too weak then the Americans can then deal with Russia and India separately so I think we need some kind of balance If see how does India prevent itself from being vasalized in the next 5 years only it's only possible if India Russia and China come together in some way and and together resist American hgemony individually these three nations will fall even Russia can fall so is a strong China is in Russia's interest I think a balanced framework of India Russia China that's what is in India is India's interest. If China becomes more powerful compared to the US, they they will start again their their nasty behavior along the India Tibet border. So we need balance. We don't need a strong China. It's like you know way too strong. Um Pratarana says some of us don't consider the 1857 events as a war of independence. Well, some of us are wrong. I suppose it was a war of independence. Some of us yeah India is so large that some of us won't consider it to be a war of independence. Some of us will say it was a revolution it was a revolt or a mutiny like the British say. Well those some of us are wrong. Okay. Okay. Viki Kana says do you think if invasion of India happens by the G2 powers what are the G2 powers? US and China. So if invasion of happen if if invasion of India happens by G2 powers if someone thinks to rule will India launch huge V for the world poison the seed nuke others isn't if we go down this time we will take the world with us will India do something nasty I don't know about uh huge ws poison the sea and newcomers. I don't know if the Indian leadership has the cohes to do that. Does India have our equivalent of the Samson option? The Samson option is the Israeli u you know doomsday scenario that if is if Israel goes down they will take all the enemies down by launching a devastating nuclear strike or strikes. The Americans also have something like this that if America is going under in a nuclear attack, the Americans will nuke every single country. That matters and take the whole world down with them. Does India have a similar plan or strategy? I don't know. I don't know. Maybe India says that if we go down, we will not take the world down with us. I don't know about that. It's a I mean that's that's I mean it's it's terrible to even even imagine these things. But so what does India do? I suppose India would if if certain red lines are crossed I suppose India may use nuclear weapons if but I don't think India will nuke the whole world India will nuke the aggressor nation and and take it down too possibly depending on who it is okay hyphen says does quantum entanglement mean that the universe is fundamentally connected if particles can stay connected is space really separating anything well quantum mechanics And is it a local theory? It's probably not a local theory. Um, if you have quantum entanglement, it doesn't mean two things are connected. It means that see if you have two quantum mechanically entangled particles, it doesn't mean they're actually connected. It means that these two particles are one single system. So it means that they don't have separate wave functions. They have the same wave function. They have a wave function, one wave function that describes the two particles. So it's a single system uh that is interconnected as such. Right? Quantum mechanically. But are all particles quantum quantum mechanically entangled? Not quite. Right. So all particles aren't entangled. Some particles are entangled. You can you can produce uh entangled particles, pairs of pairs of particles. You can produce them through various processes, but it's not necessary that all the particles in the world are entangled. Um and so let's say you have a pair of entangled particles that are described by a single wave function. Does it mean that possibly space is not separating them? No, they are definitely. See that's where quantum mechanics kind of seems to intersect with general relativity because when we talk about space we're talking about space time right and the particles are indeed separated in spaceime but we're not sure how to describe them in quantum mechanically in curved space time but they are indeed in curved spaceime so there is indeed physical separation between the particles indeed if even if they are entangled you can have one particle in the Andromeda galaxy and one particle here on the Earth and they'll still be entangled and they are still separated by 2 and a half million light years. Right? So there is indeed genuine physical and temporal separation. And secondly, all particles aren't quantum mechanically entangled. So the universe from that perspective is not entirely fundamentally connected. Okay. Vidyman says is Pakistan ever likely to balconize for internal reasons? it is very likely to balconize the moment it stops getting external support from either the US or China. Right? So Pakistan will balconize when India becomes the most powerful entity in the Indian subcontinent. That's when Pakistan will balconize. Which means that India will become more powerful in the subcontinent than the US or China. At that point Pakistan will balconize. But that is far in the future if it happens ever. And as long as the Americans or the Chinese keep supporting Pakistan, it will not balconize. That's where we are. So eventually Pakistan will balconize whenever it happens. Maybe in 5 years, maybe in 3 years, maybe in 30 years, eventually it will because it's an artificial and temporary nation. It's a fake nation. Ashish says, "Why do the Jats have such height of muscular mass and heavy wrists? How are they were they able to fight anybody who tried to capture the land relation to rigid various parts of India various people with various uh physical characteristics. So I suppose jats are large and more muscular heavier something to do with DNA something to do with their genetic ancestry but look they are able to fight anybody who tried to capture the land. Have you seen the gurkas? Let's say the jats are 6t tall on average. Okay. The gorcas are 56 or 5' seven on average males. Have you seen the gurkas? Has anybody been able to capture their land or defeat the gurkas? So it's not all about muscular mass and size of risks and size of whatever. It's not all about that. So it's it's about it's about tradition and culture also. The gurkas have this warrior ethos. They have their own way of fighting. They have their cookies. the the what are the two smaller knives called with the kukri chakmak and something else. Yeah. So it's not all about size and muscular mass and wrists and all that but yeah why are the js like this? Probably because of whatever you know genetic history they have. India is a very very very very diverse place genetically and yet within that diversity we diversity we have uniformity at a relation to rigid we don't know the juts well there's no mention of juts in rigid the rigid was written thousands of years before the word jat was jat was even imagined by anyone um so that comes much later probably connection with the skitians the masagate possibly possibly Prattana says in surveys Hinduism loses the least numbers. Who does these surveys? What is the sample size? What's the methodology of surveys? We have to ask these questions if we want to discuss something. Surveys. You can do a survey with a sample size of 200 people and then it is known that people extrapolate that to a nation of 1.4 billion people. People can do surveys of Indian genetics based on Indian origin people who live in New York City. Take 50 samples from Indian origin people who live in New York City and then that genetic data that you gather, you extrapolate that to the Indian subcontinent. Does it work? That's a very minor small sample size and those people may have come from only some parts of the subcontinent. How can you then project that on the entire subcontinent? So these surveys my question is who first of all is doing these surveys? Second what is the sample size they have used? Third how representative is the sample of the entire Hinduism. Fourth what's the methodology of your survey and so on. Surveys anybody can throw out a survey here or there you know. So my point is if these surveys are correct, I'll be very pleased. But let us not get complacent because some surveys say something. Hinduism may possibly be on its last legs today. Maybe it won't last five decades. Who knows? We cannot be complacent. That's my point. Shushut says, "How do gravitational waves help in studying the big bag?" How do gravitational waves help in studying the big bang? They don't really help us directly in studying the big bang. They help us uh understand the nature of collisions between very large gravitational objects like let's say two two black holes or two neutron stars or a neutron star and a black hole right that's what they help us understand. So what was the size of the black hole? What kind of spin possibly did it have? you know, angular momentum, um, two black holes, what were the masses, where did it happen, and so on. It doesn't really help us studying the big bang. If you want to study the big bang, you would need way better gravitational wave detectors. Let me explain why. Gravitational waves are ripples in the fabric of spaceime itself. Okay, they do exist. We know that. We know that now. Now we have this detector called LIGO laser interferometry gravitational observatory LIGO. It's a gigantic detector and it detects space-time ripples but not ripples. It detects tsunamis in the fabric of spaceime waves which are gigantic huge amplitudes. So the biggest gravitational wave amplitudes are detected by LIGO but they're actually tiny. Now what we want to detect is not the gravitational wave tsunamis but the gravitational ripples in the fabric of space time but LIGO isn't powerful enough to detect those. That is what will help us understand the conditions that were prevalent in the very early universe right after the big bang. That's what we need and that's what we don't have. If we have a gravitational wave detector that can actually detect gravitational ripples, I would personally be very interested in that. But yeah, so right now we can only detect tsunamis, not ripples. And that's why we can understand the parameters of black hole and uh neutron star collisions, but not quite the conditions in the aftermath of the big bang. ICMBBS says Swiss CHPM concluded that India achieved all its objectives in May uh Operation Hindu. Okay. What can India do better to influence global narratives that say otherwise? We need to have okay how can we influence global narratives that say otherwise? Well, you can do that by by purchasing global publications. Yeah. By acquiring global publications. Purchase the New York Times. purchase the Washington Post, purchase 50 different uh media outlets in the west, maybe not the prominent ones, but smaller ones, purchase them and have them push our propaganda. That's what you do. Now, the government should not do it. Private entities should do it. So let's say India Indian companies or whatever purchase 50 different western media outlets medium-sized ones not very prominent ones and they all start pushing Indian propaganda I am saying propaganda let's push lies why not push lies why only push the truth do that then the narrative changes another thing India should start doing playing the same games on social media that the Chinese and Pakistanis do whatever tactics they use we should use those on larger scales. So these are how this is how you influence global narratives. You can use a combination of factors. You use social media plus you purchase all those media outlets. That way you control the narrative or at least a part of the narrative. That's what you do. But India doesn't play this game for whatever reason. I just don't understand what why I don't understand. Gapati says Buddhism is the precursor to the Mletcha invasion. Buddhists supported the Yanas. It was a Buddhist who betrayed Raja Dahir and sided with bin Kasim. I don't considered Buddhism to be a part of Dharma. I can't disagree with too much you say except for the last part about considering Buddhism to be part of Dharma. It definitely is dharmic path. So I would disagree with you about that. But everything else you said I find it very hard to disagree with. All right. Harish Sharma says, "I wanted to start solving game theory, but I was told it was Epstein's favorite apart from other things. Should I continue or will I be a psychopath?" Well, Epstein was a mathematics teacher as well. Did you stop learning mathematics? Was Epstein a mathematics teacher? Let me see. Okay. Um, Jeffrey, right? Jeffrey Epstein mathematics. Um was he a mathematics teacher? Um I think he was in mathematics, right? Let me see. Okay. So he he was a physics and mathematics teacher for teenagers. So should we stop doing physics and mathematics? We should not stop doing it. Right? So it doesn't matter what Epstein did. He also breathe oxygen. Should we stop breathing oxygen? Okay. So, breathing oxygen won't make you a psychopath. Doing physics or mathematics will not make you a psychopath. All right. Go for it. All the best. Okay. Prattana says I Madras Madras making Sanskrit AI Tamil chant Riga better but some politicians want to destroy Hinduism. How are politicians so disconnected to people? See it's not like all politicians are disconnected with the people. The current system that we have in India, this Westminster democracy system, this federalism in India under the specific kind of constitution that we have all of that this all of this this all these parameters and characteristics that once they come together they produce a certain kind of system in India a political system and this political system that we have in India is is not conducive to the long-term survival of Indian civilization. So it in this system politicians benefit from from creating divisions in society. Politicians benefit from introducing various forms of chaos in society. Politicians benefit by being from being selfish and putting their personal interests over the national or civilizational interests. Right? Tamil Nadalu is a fantastic place. Beautiful culture, incredibly rich, rich and ancient culture. Some of the greatest Hindu sages have come from Tamil Nadu. Some of the greatest Hindu temples are in Tamil Nadu. Some of the greatest emperors we've had are from Tamil Nadu. From Tamil, the chasers, right? Even today if you go to Tamil Nadu, the people are so they are so connected to our culture. And yet you have other issues in Tamil Nadu. The the problem is not Tamil Nadu or Tamil Nadu's culture. The problem is the Indian political system. That's the problem. Swastik Mahesh says, "What was the flag of the Kushan Empire?" I'm not sure. Did the Kushan Empire even have a flag? Today, every nation must have a flag. Did we have flags in the past? Did the Morian Empire have a flag? I'm not sure we had a flag during the Moran Empire time. Did the Koshan Empire have a flag? I'm not sure. We had it. There's there's no requirement that every empire should have a flag. Did the Roman Empire have a flag? They didn't have a flag. Did the Ottoman Empire have flag? They didn't have a They did not have a flag. So, I don't know if the Kushan Empire had a flag. I don't think they would have had one. This requirement is a very new modern requirement. A flag was typically something you would carry into battle for protection. You believed that if the flag had a representation of gods. So Maharaja Hunjit Singh when he went into battle he did not carry with him the flag of the Sikh Empire. He carried him with him a flag a saffron flag with a representation of goddess Da on it. Maharajit Singh of the Sikh Empire. So flags were typically some things that invoked divine protection. That was what flag the purpose that flags originally served. Then later in the west it became an ego thing that you know I have this flag with three lions on it which means my my kingdom is is greater or something. That sort of thing. So I'm not sure the Kushan Empire even had had a flag. Shashad Aim says I don't feel very positive about about our nation anymore. I would not recommend you to be all discouraged and all like that. um we have lasted so long and we will I think last another thousand years I yeah this this period of time is such that yeah it's easy to lose hope you know we are facing so many problems we are losing our culture religion all of that you have this industrial scale religious conversion happening in India there There are lots of issues, lots, lots of problems indeed. But I would still say let us be optimistic. I am optimistic. There are problems, there are issues. There is the possibility of vasalization in the next five years. Five years. Next 5 years is make or break for India. But I think eventually we will prevail. I I personally am still positive over India. Okay? It'll work out. It will work out. All right? Be positive. Come on. Let's be positive. Let's all be positive together. It will work out. Fast snail says, "Are FTA's free trade agreements really good for India or tariffs needed?" Free trade agreements are great for India as long as the trade agreements are balanced and and mutually beneficial. So, if you have a FTA with the EU, which is balanced and beneficial for both sides, that's fantastic. If you have a FTA with the US that is balanced and beneficial for both sides, that's fantastic. But if you have a FTA with some entity where they get all the benefits and you get all the pain, that's not a good FDA, right? So the quality of an FDA depends on how beneficial it is for both sides. So for me, if I have an FDA with a small nation and I take all the benefits and impose the most constraints on them, it's beneficial for me, good for me, but terrible for the small nation. So ideally, you want balance. As long as you have a balanced FTA, it's good for you. Uh, diet with precaution says, has Ukraine become a kamikaza nation for the west? Sadly, Ukraine is in deep deep trouble. It's kind of a disposable tool of asset of the west right now. You know, I mean, uh, it's kind of become like that, which is of course tragic, terrible. It has kind of become like a disposable asset for the for the west. Mango Man says, "I am planning to build my career in research domain and wants to p pursue a PhD in cyber security. Any suggestions or tips?" Suggestions or tips? Look, I don't know at what stage in your education education you are. Are you in the 10th00, 12th00 college? Where are you? Master's degree, where exactly are you? I don't know. So I don't know what specific suggestions or tips I can give you. Um you want to pursue a PhD in cy cyber security. What recommendation I would I would give you is before you reach the PhD level make sure you master all the basics and fundamentals. If you want to be a researcher you need to have your basics. You need to be really strong with your basics. You need to have mastered your basics. the fundamentals the fundamentals of cyber security the fundamentals of computer science I don't know data structures algorithms and whatever it is uh operating systems and and what what whatever else you have in cyber security you have to master the fundamentals if you can do that then you can do as advanced uh research that you want yeah so that's that's the advice I'll give you master the fundamentals. All the best. Sagnik Achara says, "Where can our gallium G chipm capacity go next in 15 years in light of the recent news?" Which recent news? How can we improve VC venture capital funding for deep STE deep tech startups here? Um, GN chipm What's Gallium G? um architecture generative adversarial network. I'm not sure if that's what you're asking me chips. GAN chips. What are GAN chips? Gallium nitride. Okay. Gallium nitride. Uh gallium nitride chips. What's it do? Uh gallium nitride band direct band gap semiconductor commonly used in blue LEDs and so on. Um look okay so where can our gallium nitride chipm gallium nitrate is a semiconductor I suppose it has some news in chips I yeah okay where can it go in the next 10 15 to 15 years in the light of the recent news which recent news are you talking about the trade inter trade framework thing I don't know if that is relevant to our uh chipm semic program. Where can our capabilities, technological capabilities for manufacturing chips go in the next 10 to 15 years in the absence of any news? It will all depend on whether we can acquire or develop photo lithography technology. Photo lithography machines are used to etch the circuits on chips. Incredibly detailed circuits on very small chips. you need auto lithography technology. The Chinese are trying to reverse engineer or acquire it somehow using people who have worked in ASML which is a Dutch company which which is the uh world leader in photo lithography technology. So if India wants to be at the same level as the US and China in ship making we will need to master photo lithography technology. That's what we need to do and yeah so that's the thing that's that's the challenge how can we improve VC funding for deep tech startups here venture capital funding well Indian Indian uh venture capitalists will have to uh well they will have to change some of their outlook they will have to develop a bigger appetite for risk and secondly think long term don't just cash out once you once you you know once the company or or the startup has reached a certain stage and obviously if the government can ease ease up the you know improve the ease of doing business and so on in India it can certainly help. Yeah. Namitrana says is if if this path silenced by Anglo that if we martyed while saving dharma we will get swa swa will have sum honey ancestors of saras dance pleasure and beautiful best things done thousand times that of earth. It sounds suspiciously like a very different religion to me. Is this path silenced by Anglo? I'm not exactly sure what you're saying, but what you are saying is very suspiciously similar to something a different religion says. So uh Barak Jawan says u removing UGC and making reservations on economic basis is vital for Bhat and uh removing cast and replacing it with Berna and Gautra system as it used to be. When will we start to rebuild Bat as it used to be now when will this happen? I don't know. I would like this to start right away tomorrow morning. Ideally, it should start immediately. But when will it happen? I it depends on our leadership, on our elected leadership. Do they first of all want this to happen or do they not want it to happen at all? If they do want it to happen, then when will they start working on this? I I don't know. Um so I I agree with you. We need to make reservations on the basis of family's economic condition, right? That's what you need to do instead of doing making on you know basing it on on cast. We need to completely remove cast. I completely agree with you and let people continue their jati traditions and gutra whatever right let people do it individually but there should be no official cast anywhere on any document. So that's how we go back to with the way we used to be. And uh so I agree with these things but when do we start doing this? It's not in our hands because we don't control the country. It's the politicians and the elected people who control the country and this will happen only when they decide it's it's it's the time to do it. I'm not sure when that happens. It's in their hands. Uh SDE says Jews roshield play double games. USA is just a tissue paper. They are now coming for India to use as tissue paper Trump is trying hard to save America so they want them. Okay, sir. I don't know about this but okay. Um I haven't studied the history of rose shields. I don't know about the theories about Jews controlling the world. I don't know if they're true or not. Uh so yeah, don't know. Honey Sharma says, "Did you ever see a ghost? Any personal horror story?" I haven't never seen a ghost. I've never experienced anything substantially supernatural. I've definitely never seen a ghost. So, I don't have any personal horror stories. Sorry. Hector Hector Geronimo says, "Will UFOs be the next scops with ample evidence evidence? Will any files be ever released?" Recently, a NASA scientist said he does believe there are aliens, but did not talk much about it. Will UFOs be the next SCOPS? I don't know what's going to come next. What SCOP will be next? Um with ample evidence. Do I know that there is ample evidence? I don't know about ample evidence. I mean if there is evidence that aliens exist and they're around then why will only one country see all the evidence. And why will we not see alien UFOs in the skies over Delhi in Mumbai? Okay, Delhi, Mumbai too much pollution but maybe somewhere else in India. Why won't why why don't you see UFOs there on a routine basis like in the US? Why not over Jakarta? Why not over you know Tokyo? Why only in the US? So I don't know if this is true if there is any evidence evidence and if they release such evidence whether that evidence will be true or will be altered and somebody said something it makes no difference to me. I don't care what people say. Show me the evidence. Words don't matter. Words are cheap. Words are words have no meaning or value. Evidence is what matters. Hard evidence, not not not ambiguous evidence. So I don't know if if some nation suddenly announces that UFOs and aliens exist, I'll be very suspicious about it. Actually, I'll be very skeptical about it. Rajat says, "How are you?" I'm good. I'm good, sir. Um, thank you. Recent paper co-authored by Carlo Roi and Swami Surva Priyananda gives good perspective on consciousness seen in seen in Noima magazine. Let's see uh car loi swami surand uh which no a no magazine let's see what do we have consciousness across three world views okay consciousness across three worldviews central concepts in three different domains Hindu tradition In computer science and quantum physics find analogies and reflect one another. Interesting. I I'll not read this whole thing over here but very interesting and I shall certainly check this out. I shall certainly check this out later on not right now. So thank you so much for this very interesting recommendation. Thank you so much indeed Rajat. And Rajat says, "Will H ever deliver the Mark 1A again?" Delay news heard. I I haven't heard this news of the delay. I'm sure it will delay the Mark 1A, but what is the cause of the delay? I'm not sure. And uh I think the government needs to look into these matters and you know get on top of these things. What are the issues? Address the issues. Yeah. Yeah. We for says Ram Ram g great efforts as always. Thank you so much Ram Ramj. Thank you very much indeed. Thank you. D with Prigoian says want to create DI Vagner like PMC. Any suggestions? Uh they vagner like private military corporation. Any suggestions? First first suggestion you need to have a tremendous amount of money. Second, you need to have access to prisoner to prisons where you can recruit certain categories of prisoners, right? So, you need to have access, you know, you need to have permission from the government. You need to have a lot of money. You need to have a lot of you need to have people who can handle those prisoners and turn them into proper highquality mercenaries. You need to have people who can give military training. You need to have access to arms, ammunition, so many things. So that's how you and pro possibly you need to be a chef in the in the past. Okay. Rajett says hire talent from Boeing Safh to build own engine. We can do that. Yeah sure why not? But for that you need money. And not just the talent you need to pour in at least a billion dollars into the program. You can certainly hire talent that will require money like good good amounts of money. But then you will need to source all the hardware do all the testing. You need a wind tunnel. You need u an aircraft on which you can test the engine. Then you need to build multiple iterations of the engine. Some of these will not work. Some will work better. Some will blow up. You need a lot of money to do this. India doesn't invest money in these matters. So what can I say? Sueda says, "What are your thoughts on causality and unarity? Is it safe to say we both can't that both can't be true simultaneously unless you use the multiple worlds interpretation?" The many worlds interpretation. I personally think unitarity is map and not territory. It's possible unit territory is map and not territory. Map. Yeah. What's my thoughts on causality and unit? I think also I tend to believe that union territory is more map and less the territory right um is it safe to say that both can't be true simultaneously unless you use the many worlds interpretation what does the many worlds interpretation say about unitarity uh both can't be true so the universe can't be causal and unitary at the same time unless you use the many worlds interpretation. I'm not entirely sure right now uh the Everettian multi manual worlds interpretation. I I I what I can say is that I kind of agree with you that unitarity is more the map more likely to be map and not territory. Not sure whether what the many words interpretation would say about this. Yeah. So that's what I can say at this point. Yeah, unitarity is most most likely map and not territory. Seda again the same question. Okay, you have the same question repeated. Well, anyway, yeah. OCI holder says, EU passport for growth or stay Indian. Your opinion, it's entirely your choice. Entirely your choice. I will say you decide for yourself what what you think is best for yourself. Yeah. Ask yourself this question. Will you be able to get the growth you want, desire or deserve if you stay Indian? If you will stay Indian, if you won't get the growth you want in India, then ask yourself that is your love for the country more important than personal growth. If that's the case, you stay Indian. Otherwise, you go for a EU passport. So, you have decided yourself, sir. Okay. Right. Iraq says, "We have uh majestic temples in India. We are aware of their patron dynasties, but I would like to know about the engineers. Who are they?" We have no idea. We've lost all the information. We've lost all the information about the engineers, right? We don't have any records left. Sometimes in some temples, you may have some inscription with some names, but some could be donors, some could be patrons, engineers, I'm not sure. So, we have lost the information. All the records have been destroyed. Uh so yeah says for centuries pre-Jewish Israel at local kings with mitani influenced arian names like akaps indro ashkalon shubandu megidos beridya etc and elite military aristocracy called Maranu. Okay, let me check out some of these names. Accepts Indro. What is that? Uh, Indro or is it a with a apostrophe? Is it I'm not sure about that. Okay, let's see. Ashkillons. Okay. Okay, let's just go with Androda. Who is Ah who is Indro? A st a sage a son etc etc etc. Okay subhandu subandu. What is that? Subandu. Ashkalon. Right. Ashkalon. There is no direct connection. Okay. So I'm not sure but all right. So I'm not aware of this and I'm not able to find immediate information about this. I'm sure it's there but I'll have to dig a little deeper into it. So I'll check it out sir. Thank you very much for the interesting fact oid. Oh yeah. Thank you. Uh Rohani says do you take notes while reading to retain info better? No. I will sometimes underline stuff but I don't take notes while reading. Um I'm sure I would have done some kind of for for some form of note takingaking when I was still a student back in the day. I would have reinterpreted what I read in my own own words to make it easier easier for me to retain it. I would have done that back in the day. But today when I read I don't take notes. Today when I read I will sometimes underline stuff but uh I don't take notes anymore. The national the rational reporter says has philosophy interested you? Do you what do you want India to produce the most great philosophers, mathematicians, physicists or economics? Economists and in what what order? Philosophy fascinates me but I've never had the time to study it in any great detail. It's fascinating for sure. Uh yeah. So what do I want India to produce the most? Great philosophers, mathematicians, economists, physicists and in what order? Um what does India need the most? Engineers, physicists, mathematicians, sure. India needs engineers the most also physicists. Economists maybe in a small small number. What do economists produce? We know what engineers produce. They produce real world things. What do physicists produce? They they produce advances in physics that can be used in in the real world by engineers. What do mathematicians produce? They produce new techniques and new concepts. But techniques that can be used in physics that can be used by engineers. So yes, we need engineers in large numbers, physicists in reasonable numbers, mathematicians in small numbers, economists in smaller numbers, philosophers in whatever number they would want to produce themselves. philosophers well they don't actually produce any real world goods but they are of course important so yeah died with prejun says can we can India have a brahmos like joint venture for jet engine gas turbines with npo satyan or kuznatsov three Chinese killed in Tajik border clash with any raw involvement I am not aware of this tajik border clash I'm not seen that can India have brahosl like joint venture for jet engine gas turbines with npo satin or khnets of Russian companies, Russian um jet engine manufacturers. Can we have it? I suppose we could have it. It would we be for both governments to come to the right terms for a joint venture. It's certainly possible provided both governments are willing and they can come they can arrive at a at at at a good kind of understanding and agreement. It's possible. Pratep Kumar Roy has become a new member. Thank you so much Pratib Kumar Roy G. I really appreciate it and welcome to the membership of this channel. Thank you sir. Ply no pycraft AI central says after 40 years of long growth India's market cap overtook Hong Kong and several EU markets. Why do global financial media like Bloomberg still give more focus to EU and in Hong Kong? Because they don't they're not pleased with the fact that India is over overtaking these western or western controlled economies. Hong Kong used to be a western control economy and right now it's a Chinese economy, right? Um but India is a nation that was formerly defeated. It's a culture, it's a civilization that was formerly defeated and it's now standing back up on its feet and it's kind of rising and they they can't stand it. So they will always underplay India's achievements. Now slowly India's achievements are becoming almost too large and too significant to ignore. But they'll still try and do that. It's it's the it's indophobia. Let's call it that. Okay. Okay. Mama bucket VFX says, "Please check out Bashar Prime Radiant ET entity." Bashar Prime Radiant. Let's see. Prime radiant. What is that? the prime radiant understanding uh the god particle all of existence is made from the same particle um okay there's a there's a there's a article over here and it's about what let me check it out the prime radiant understanding the god particle the universe is vast particle every action thought and particle plays a crucial at the heart of the prime radiant a profound concept this blog post will embark on the explanation. Okay. Okay. Okay. I will I will check it out. I'll not read the whole thing right now because we are doing a Q&A. But thank you once again for that recommendation indeed. Um drive with precaution says rupee value has been dropping continuously since 1947. What's my opinion? Yeah, it's been dropping. It's it's just a fact of life. That's that's the thing. In the past, the rupee was not a free floating currency. It was uh controlled tightly by the government of India and it's it's been devalued multiple times o over the years over the decades. Eventually after 1991 or '92 it became a free floating currency and then it's uh then it's been manipulated by by market forces and maybe something more than market forces, right? Um so it's just a fact of life. It is what it is. Um and right now it's still kind of dropping compared to the value of the dollar. The dollar obviously is is this artificially propped up currency. So we'll see about that in the long run. Vihung Kuran says thank you Aijit sir for your guidance answering our questions and raising our standards through these live streams. I really enjoy them. Thank you so much sir. Thank you to you Vhung and thank you to all of our viewers for all the very interesting questions that you ask me. I try my best to answer of of course sometimes I may not be able to answer but I try my best. So thank you all of you as well for making this channel what it is right it's because of these interactions that this that that we have this community that we have right now and we discuss so many interesting things. So thank you to all of you all my viewers past and present and future. Thank you. Victor Geronimos says, "Will UFOs be I took this question. How come it's repeated? I took this question a while ago." So, uh, Godliness says, "I know nothing will happen, but I will still try. Can someone please for God's sake implement traffic rules on the Indian streets and highways? Driving is now becoming life-threatening." What can I say? What can I say? There's no enforcement of traffic rules in India, right? I mean in some parts of some cities you may have some enforcement but overall in India it's you know you leave it to the gods unfortunately. Vir Kamat says reports claim that serum AI has outperformed Gemini in latest benchmarks. Can you analyze? Uh analysis I can't do right now live but let's see what server AI is. I've heard about it. I'm hearing good things about serum AI. What is Serum AI? Sovereign Indian AI ecosystem for LLM's agents and whatn not. So what does Wikip have to say about this? AI is focusing these large consumers for Indian languages and context building efficient Indian language voice bots and all of that uh technology funding founding etc reception serum agent servant serum 2B uh shuka 1.0 audio long language model server models A1 and so on. Okay, it doesn't say much here. What? Let's see what server uh has to say on uh Twitter. Will it ever open up? So, do we have anything about the latest uh benchmarks? Uh meet blah blah blah serum 2B. Let's see. So, serum M 24 billion open weights hybrid model general knowledge. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. It's doing pretty well actually. It's doing pretty well. Okay. So, I I will not go through all of this right now, but uh looks very interesting. And if this is genuinely a sovereign AI, fantastic. I will have to check it out and take it for a test test drive, I would say. Godliness says, "We want a podcast on alien life and space mystery." You want a podcast or do you want a live stream? Podcast. Well, somebody will have to host me for that. And people want to host me for history and geopolitics, but never science. Uh, alien life and space mysteries. We could discuss that. If it's a live stream you want, I could do a live stream in which I take your questions. If it's a podcast, we'll see about that. But anyway, I'm glad somebody's interested in this stuff. Yeah. SK1 sk1sk says, "Okay, nothing." Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you very much. Uh Sam the gamer says if our moon was tidily unlocked like Hyperion, well it would be a different uh experience we would have here on the planet. Um the moon is tidly tidly locked in what what resonance? Some resonance resonance with the earth which is why see the moon's rotation period is the same as the time it takes for it to go around the earth once. So it rotates. It also goes around the earth. Revolution orbits the earth. So one rotation of the moon is the same as the time it takes to orbit the earth once. Which is why we only see one face of the moon. If it was not tidily locked, would it be more chaotic for the planet Earth? It would be different and not necessarily more chaotic. Yeah. the moon would not be at the same distance as it is with us right now. In that case, it would not be tidily locked and yeah, even if it's a different distance, the the the it can still be tid tidily locked with a different period of rotation. But if it was tidily unlocked, we would have a different experience here on Earth of the moon, I suppose. A Matt Blackbeard says, "Why hasn't India reverse engineered the Sukoy30s AL31 FP or Mirage Mirage's M53 engines? Why not a dual cavary jet or Russian powered indigenous airframe?" Well, I don't know why India has not bothered to reverse engineer anything. When the Russians sold various system systems to the Chinese, the Chinese reverse engineered everything. The Chinese have their own indigenous jet engine now which is obviously a reverse engineered Russian engine. The Chinese do this. India never does a thing because India has no ambition I suppose because the Indian um model for military procurement was always import stuff never try to become self-sufficient. It obviously points to a lack of ambition or a lack of leadership qualities somewhere along the way where I don't know whether it's the very top or at various levels in the military I'm not sure I would say I would put the blame not in the military itself definitely some blame has to be shared by the military but I think above the military that's why we have never reverse engineered anything I mean the Chinese took the the MIG 21 and developed it into the JF7 right which is a decent aircraft we didn't even bother to do that so India lacks ambition right even today we could reverse engineer various things but we don't seem to be doing it um godliness says what's my forecast on the upcoming Bangladeshi elections I think my forecast I have no idea about the Bangladeshi polit politics I don't care my forecast is that whatever the Americans want will happen that's my forecast I think that's a pretty accurate and clear forecast. Whatever the Americans want will happen in Bangladesh in the upcoming Bangladesh elections. Okay. Jura TV says, "Is it possible for the US Navy and intelligence to track info of each and every shallow fleet tanker in the ocean or is it a difficult task?" It is 100% possible for the US Navy and intelligence to track the info of each and every of these shadow fleet tankers. They have this vast network of satellites. They know everything that's happening in real time. It's difficult. But if you have 10,000 satellites in space, very possible. And now you have tens of thousands of starling satellites which may have other capabilities also. So the Americans can monitor everything, track everything in real time. Pratik Shenoi says, "How accurate are modern portrayals of pre-Christian Greek and Norse societies as morally corrupt, univilized, brutal? To what extent is this view shaped by movies and TV rather than history?" Much love to you. Thank you so much. Uh modern portrayals of pre-Christian Greek and north nor societies morally all that. Well, these modern portrayals are indeed very much strongly very strongly influenced by Christianity. Christianity sees polytheism as evil, as demonic, as satanic, right? So, I mean, uh, if you watch that series called Vikings, they portray Viking culture as pretty weird. I mean bloodthirsty and I'm sure pretty inaccurately right. Um so a lot of this view the view is not shaped by movies and TV it's shaped by Christianity. Christianity has always portrayed polytheistic cultures as evil and backward and all that. So the view is shaped by Christianity not by TV TV or movies. Okay. Mary Kane, Mary Kane, ma'am, good to see you always. I'm noticing next level auto comment bots in your Q&As and collabs with others. CIB coordinated inauthentic behavior that bypass platform security trying to create account karma. Well, um, thank you for pointing this out. I I'm I'm sure I've noticed some of it. Uh I've not seen the comments in my collabs with others because there are so many of those these days. Uh but okay, it's interesting that this is happening. I'll try and check it out. Um okay. So, thank you. Thank you so much, Mary. Thank Mary G for pointing this out and thank you as always for being such a great supporter. Thank you so much, Mary. Dark Side of the Moon says, "Listen, publications." Not at this time. Not over here. I'll I'll show you one. I'll show you one. Okay, this one. Dark matter and stable bound states of primordial black holes. So, if you go to this here, uh there is this journal called Okay, I'm human. Thank you. I am indeed. Okay, I've got to do stuff now. Prick all creatures that could shelter in the item. I got to pick some birds, I suppose. One, two, three. Three birds and now we've got to submit this. Come on IOP science. So this is a journal called classical and quantum gravity. Can I please not do all this? Yeah. And this is a research paper from May 20, 2002. Dark matter and stable primordial stable bound states of primordial black holes. is published in the journal of classical and quantum gravity and it's about dark matter and prim and primordial black holes. So that's one and you can look up whatever else is there. Thank you. Okay. Dial with prejud says why was popart? What's popart? What's nine? Okay. I I don't know what popart is. I it's clearly a euphemism for somebody but I'm not sure what popat is. So okay reintor says does India have more than enough rare earth metals so in future when China tries to limit it should it there shouldn't be any problems but it also it's very important for atma and various sectors. India has the world's largest reserves of rare earths rare earth elements including metals. India I repeat has the world's largest reserves of rare earth elements but India has never bothered to develop the capacity to extract refine and purify these rare earths into what you use industrially and commercially. We don't do the mining. We don't do the refining on the purification. We don't do any of that. The Chinese do it. So, we have everything, but we don't have the capacity to actually use it. That's the problem. But it's there. That's why the Americans want India intact silica, right? So if we start developing the ability to extract, mine, extract, refine the rare earths and produce the finished goods, it may take us 5 to 10 years at least. Once we do that, we will no longer be dependent on any anybody else, especially the Chinese. Mr. Draula is Draula. Yes. Mr. Draula says, don't you think that CCP is pushing itself? Don't you think that CCP is pushing itself as a new party that India needs a new party? We can make sure it remains a regional power just by pointing out I'm not sure what you're asking sir. Chinese Communist Party is pushing itself as a new party that India needs a new party so it can make sure it remains a regional power just by pointing out flaws. I'm not really sure what you're asking sir. I really I'm really sorry I'm not able to get understand what is what what what you are trying to ask. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm very sorry. Arismanticoro manticor says the elites ruling the west are absolute Fabian socialists. The words spoken by the leaders in the past are extremely disgusting. It's a blight upon this world and creates people like Epstein. I'm not sure about Fabian socialism. The elites who rule the west are capitalists. They are acceleration accelerationists. They are not Fabian socialists. Fabian socialism was all about making change very slowly, very gradual change. The Nairovian rate of growth that was Fabian socialism in action. Um so the elites ruling the west are capitalists. They are accelerationists. They want things to go faster. They want change to happen faster. They want control over the world. Uh the words spoken by the leaders in the past are extremely disgusting. I suppose they could be. Um and it creates people like like very sad and pretty ghastly that something like this happens. But yeah, we have it. It's all over the place. They were all involved in this. And look, Epstein is dead allegedly. Apparently, his Fortnite account is still active. So, that's interesting. But, okay, let's say he's dead. Do you think there's no other Epstein out there in the world? Hard to hard to imagine that, sir. Uh, the Chimpllo guy, the Chimplok guy says, "Your thoughts on making India. Was it successful? Was it failure?" Yeah, the data is confusing from FDI and other sources. I think it's not a failure but it's not a success either. It's somewhere in between. Making India hasn't succeeded to the extent that we would have wanted it to succeed. I mean, what does India manufacture and produce for the world right now? Not a lot, right? But there is there are some positive stories and positive outcomes that have emerged from making India. For example, much of the success that we saw in operation sindur was because of atmunda because of made in India military equipment, right? I mean we today we can say with confidence that we have the world's best battle tested air defense system indigenous. So there are successes in certain sectors but it's not successful the to the extent that we wanted would we would have wanted it to be over the past one decade right more than one decade we haven't become a major manufacturing power that is uh definitely not successful so we are somewhere in between I think there is still a lot of potential in making India but it's not a failure as such it's not neither a success somewhere in Inferno Jesus, whenever mainstream media makes noise, is it prudent to look elsewhere to see what they're trying to hide? For example, Trump tariffs and Maduro's kidnap. I would say right now the biggest noise on mainstream media probably is the Epstein files. So if the Epstein files are happening and there's all this noise about it, what are they trying to hide potentially? Yeah. So, it's always prudent to be cautious and to be skeptical when there's a big amount of noise being made about something. Always ask yourself, are they trying to divert everyone's attention away from something else that's more important? It is prudent to do this. It's a good approach to have. It's a approach that reveals a certain extent of critical thinking in your head. Right? So, yes, do look elsewhere. Try and look around and see what else. What are the shadow signals you're seeing? What's obviously you can't suppress everything but you try and keep it hidden suppressed. So yeah, it's a good approach to have. Pratib Kumar Roy says black guard sorry what did I say? Black guard. Okay, I think my mind is now scrambled after almost four hours of this. Black Rock, Vanguard, and State Street collectively manage over $30 trillion in assets. 88% of CEOs of the SNP 500 are controlled by them. Financial industrial complex is actually stronger than the defense industrial complex. I cannot disagree with you. I agree with you. So, I'm not sure if the $30 trillion uh amount is correct or not, but I'm sure it is. You must have done your research. Um, Black Rockck, Vanguard, States. Okay. State Street, I'm not sure, but Black Rock and Vanguard I'm aware of. They do collect tremen do collectively manage a very very large number quantum of assets. Yes. So yeah the financial industry complex obviously it's actually stronger and uh yeah than the defense industry complex. I agree. Vir Kamat says best way Indian-Americans can be agents of Dharmic civilization. How can Indian-Americans be agents of Dharmic civilization? Um, first of all, um, do we even have a Dharmic civilization? But, okay, let's say India is the Dharmic civilization. How can Indian-Americans be agents of Dharmic civilization? Well, first of all, if you are American citizens, it is your dharma not to betray your country. So you you have to obviously uh be loyal to your country but you can also be uh you could say uh ambassadors of Dharmic civilization and Dharma. How to do that? Well, what Indian Americans should do is they should organize and uni and and unite instead of being you know this divided set of people. Indian-Americans don't learn from the Jewish Americans. See how they are always united and cohesive in their actions. They of course are American citizens but they also promote Jewish interests and Israeli interests. Learn from them whatever they are super successful aren't they at everything. Indians are also super successful individually in an individual capacity but they don't they're not they're spectacularly spectacular failures at a group level unlike the Israeli or or or Jewish Americans. So learn from the Jewish Americans, right? Unite instead of fighting amongst each other all the time. Unite and then you can be better agents of Dharma. Pratik Pratipkumar roices I'm a Bengali Brahman. We've had this goat bala in front of our Kul Dvi every year which have recently been stopped due to some government order. I don't know whether it's the right thing to do. Why worship even the government should never come and interfere in private religious matters. I mean I can think of another religious practice where goats are sacrificed in very large numbers. So why has this been stopped for Bengali Brahmans? That is terrible. I'm so sorry to hear this. I am so sorry to hear this. I don't know what to do. I I don't know what to tell you. What you should do. I don't understand why this would happen. The the government has no right to interfere in private religious practices. Right. Terrible. I I hope this this is reversed. Maybe you should go to the court to the judiciary. I don't know. Terrible. Like I keep saying, India is a India is a Hindu phobic, apathide state. This is terrible. I'm sorry to hear this, sir. Somi Shankr, thank you very much. Somi Shankar G, thank you. YT user 786 says, "Why do you think original Gorkcas are not joining Gorka regiment of Indian army? Instead prefer British, Singapore or Burmese army?" Burmese really last couple of years no Gorcas joining Indian army. Um there could be multiple reasons. First of all, why do the Gurkas prefer the British army or Singapore army? better pay much more pay right you get a lot more money if you are serving in the British army or maybe the Singapore army Burmese army I'm not sure about that last couple of years no gurkas joining Indian army maybe there are political reasons for that the Nepalese politicians are all pro-China and anti-India most of them at least you know the main majority of them so maybe there's there's a political reason for reason for that for Gulkas not joining the Indian army now the last couple of Yes. Does it have something to do with the Agnes keep? I am not sure about that. But definitely political reasons. Um so the Indian army can't pay as much as the British army, right? So that's another reason for for the other phenomenon of them preferring the British army. But then you're serving the the original oppressors, aren't you? But it is what it is. You know, people have to make their own decisions based on uh personal needs and requirements. So I think that that's the situation. Uh Sam the Gamer says India's 2015 facile material stock 1 to2K 300 nukes uh there I don't have the studies right now in front of me but there there are these studies that were taken that were done in the 2010s maybe around 2015 to 17 or 18 uh trying to estimate how much file material does India actually have and if you tally that up together based on you know reasonably accurate estimates then it was found that India has sufficient file material for at least 2,000 nuclear warheads at least 2,000 and it it includes file material that's used in nuclear reactors and whatn not but India has enough file material for at least 2,000 nuclear warheads so yeah how many do we I've actually I I I couldn't possibly guess. I don't know. Okay. Humanity survive says, "I enjoy working out when you're alive." Well, do enjoy your workouts. I'm glad that I contribute to to your enjoyment of your workouts. Working out is is fantastic. It's essential for a healthy life. So, I'm glad I I'm glad to be of service. Do keep on doing your workouts. Enjoy them. Thank you. Slendy's says, "How is demographic change occurring? How can we counter? How are they able to behave so organized and like a hive mind? How can Hindus do it too?" Look, I will not go into the religious matters here. How is demographic change happening? One way of this is uh through illegal immigration. We apparently have very open and porous borders between India and Bangladesh, East Pakistan. and Bangladeshes have been pouring into India for decades and the government of India has somehow failed to stop this. So in the year 2016 uh Shri Kiran Riuji GI had said in parliament that there are probably around 2 cr Bangladeshes in India in 2016 20 million today is 2026 a it's been a decade how many do we have today that's the question definitely way more than 20 million now so that's one way of doing demographic change by p pushing in Bangladeshes in tremendous numbers into India and they will not come and sit in India they'll multiply they will have children born here in large large large numbers what about the Rohhingas you have Rohingya all over India in Jammu you have Rohingya settlements in Jammu then apparently during the operation Sundur India discovered tens of thousands of Pakistanis who have been living in India for decades then you have the Manipur disaster which is unfolding in front of our eyes right now cookie land for Christ lacks apparently of cookies Burmese people who crossed over into India and who are squatting on Manipur territory. This is how demographic change happens. This is one way of demographic change happening. Another way is through industrial scale demographic re-engineering through religious conversions that's happening in various states of India. How can we counter the government should end these practices? The government should uh detect and deport all the illegal infiltrators whether they are Bangladesh, Rohingya, Pakistanis, cookies, whatever. Everyone who has come to India illegally should be deported. Second, stop these industrial scale religious conversions. I have no issue with someone deciding deciding on his or her own that they want to worship a certain god or convert to a certain religion. It's a private matter. It's a personal choice. I will never oppose any individual's choice to convert to whatever religion you want to convert to religion X or Y or Z, that's entirely your choice. But it has to come from inside you. It should not be shoved upon you top down the way these industrial scale conversions are happening. That is demographic re-engineering. That's not personal choice. So the government should do something about this. Why is the government allowing this to happen? So there are so many ways of countering this but it doesn't look like we have any political will to do do that right now. Anand Gribbal says, "How to find equal power for men which doesn't care for pain and I see so much wrong going misused power and can elite culture end because of how many questions do we have? How to find equal power for men which doesn't care for pain? What does that even mean?" And I see so much wrong going misused power and can elite culture end because of epist file. Okay, I'm not able to understand the first couple questions but I'll try and address the last one. Can elite culture end because of Epstein files? You mean this ghastly culture that the Americans in the West have of the PDF file thing and the the what they do to children and babies and whatnot, will that end because it's been revealed in the Epstein files, the trafficking of underage human beings and all that. Will it end because of the Epstein files? No, it won't end. Still going on. Sadly, it won't end because of the Epson files. The epinion files are about it's about exposing the old elite. It's about it's about the power the the powers that be exposing the old elite and making them irrelevant. But there's new elite who I don't know maybe they continue this nonsense this atrocious horrific behavior. Maybe they do. So I don't think the Epstein files will end this culture. I think the culture will continue and uh I don't know what the cure to that is. So Kumar Roy says wrong treatments organ trafficking bodies alive or dead not just skeletons 1980s Kolkata was much more sanitized history maloc active through hospitals none of us are safe it seems yeah 1980s Kolkata well so I' I I've only heard about this skeleton thing the sale of these skeletons I don't know that there was like millions of them which sounds I mean which indicates something really really really wrong. Something really horrific that happened. I don't know who did this and why was no no one ever punished but looks like there was so much more to this. Yeah, maybe somebody needs to investigate this in detail. Maybe the government of India needs to wake up and look into this because if those people weren't punished, they can still do that. Yeah. Okay. Gora TV says, "I don't see any point of propaganda wars. overwhelming strike delivers visible results that don't require propaganda like 1971 results. There is a lot of value to propaganda wars. You can win without fighting. You can demoralize the enemy without having to land a single punch, a single blow, a single $2 million missile. There's a tremendous amount of value to propaganda. It will deliver invisible results that the victims themselves won't see. Okay, these are the dark arts of geopolitics. There's a tremendous amount of value in that. Ankumar says, "What was the pre-European dharmic equivalent of a PhD?" Nobody had PhDs. Nobody cared about PhDs. What was the dharmic? See it was being regarded as a guru. Today Indians imagine that a guru your teachers are your gurus. Yeah. You stop paying your teachers they won't give you give you one more second of of you know knowledge. The moment you stop paying your fees you think your teachers will teach you. They'll ask you to leave. Did a guru ever do that? So to be regarded as a guru you had to be the wisest of the wise the most knowledgeable of the of the knowledgeable. So being regarded as a guru was the true I mean today any any Tom Dick or Harry can get a PhD. Okay if you look at the the standards of the Indian PhD thesis it's it's absolute garbage. Go to show Ganga let me show you okay I mean the let's do this show the Ganga reservoir of Indian thesis. Okay. Uh search thesis on in to show the Ganga. Uh what shall we search for? Uh let's say sociology. Let us see. Sociology thesis imprisonment and women. A sociological study. Sociology of teacher student relation. Let's okay. Let's not do that. Uh impact on duran a sociological analysis. Okay, stop that. Whoever this person is, I don't, it doesn't matter. When was this done? 2005. Uh, content chapter one. Uh, okay. It's asking me to download the stuff. My My point is, my point is the Indian PhD thesis is trash. The average Indian PhD. Um, I think the pre-European dharmic equivalent was guru. Anand Anad Gribbal says so much lack of trust among people in how to create mess which is ruining Janzi and millennial and future scares me because they don't understand things. So we can fix this by fixing the education system and we will we will once again have tremendously highquality individuals. Maybe the genzies and millennials and genpha are you know they don't understand things. It's not their fault the system has done this to them. Let's let's make sure generation beta, gen B, gen beta is much better quality by reforming the education system. So it can be done. All these problems can be fixed if there is the right leadership and the will to do this. Aris Manticor says the Epstein files have invoked a new wave. Anti-semitism is on an inexplicable rise along with anti-feminism, anti-trans and anti- vocism. A roachchild lost a court case in the US according to who? I'm not aware of any of these things. There's a new wave of anti-semitism, anti-feminism, anti-rans, antivism. Are these all connected to the Epstein files? I'm not sure if it's connected to the Epstein files. Roachchild lost a court case in the US. I'm not aware of that also. So look, I am not aware of these things. I have to look it up and then perhaps see if there's a connection to the Epstein files. And is there a warning to someone? I don't know. So okay, Abhir Sarcar says, "Is it wise to trust people in real life in order to build connections knowing how often history shows betrayal and self-interest?" It is highly unwise to trust people in real life. Unless they are your family. Even in family you have to be careful. Look in your life. Let's say you live 80. Let's say you live 100 years. You're going to have in your entire life maybe three to five persons you can genuinely trust. You're going to meet hundreds of people in your entire life. You may have if you are lucky you will have three to five people who you can trust completely. Okay. But you have to build connections in life. So you build those connections but you have to be careful. You can't trust anybody entirely and completely. You have to be careful. You have to be prudent. So don't trust people blindly. Uh McLevin says what are the options for general category people now? Vote for opposition or not? You vote for the opposition you're going to go from the frying pan into the fire. Okay. Right now you're in the frying pan. Frying pan. You vote for not or opposition. You're going to jump into the fire itself. What are the options? I don't know what are the options. What are the options? I don't know what are the options. Yeah. Trust in God and vote for the leader, I suppose. I don't know. Uh YT user says, "Should India adopt Chinese way of reverse engineering?" Give me a second. Uh okay. Should India adopt the Chinese way of reverse engineering and stealing technology from the west to to fasttrack advancement instead of reinventing the wheel? Indians working abroad don't have nationalistic goals. Should India reverse engineer things? India should reverse engineer everything possible. Everyone does it. Even the west has done that. Even the west has stolen technology and knowledge and whatnot. They constantly steal Indian ancient knowledge and you know claim that it's all their invention. There there's nothing ethical about what they do. So India should go ahead and reverse engineer everything that's possible. Absolutely everything possible. Yeah. Uh mantor says Siri no is an Indian startup to build electric batterybased jet engines. Electric battery based jet engines it's usually under the radar but it has done incredible work. Unfortunately the Brits have brought the bought the company another missed opportunity is its sinor. Let's see what is serenor sustainable aviation zero true zero emission jet turbines electric jet engines Norwegian startup how did it become Norwegian you're saying it's Indian uh sirino technology private manufacturing machine it looks like there are two different companies one is the sirino Indian thing and serial technologies rise of a valuation. Okay. I I'll have to look into this. I'll not do the research right now, but looks like it's what you're saying is probably true. Yeah, I'll look into it. Thank you. Okay. Anul says, "Yad's surname has ancient roots. If the Yadavs were a warrior clan, how did strong vegetarian traditions emerge later?" I am not aware of the history of the Yadav clan. I haven't studied it. So I don't know when did these vegetarian traditions emerge? Are all Yadavs vegetarian? Has the Yadav clan had this long-standing tradition of vegetarianism? Clearly they were warriors initially back in the days of Sushi Krishna. So I don't know when what happened so can't really say. OCI holder says game theory says choose EU passport says India I'll give you a solution choose the EU passport have an OCI card work in the EU amass money amass experience amass uh skills become a person of substance become a billionaire then you can invest in India You see it works both ways. It's a win-win situation then. But this the condition is that you have to become either a millionaire, multimillionaire or billionaire. So make it happen sir. Make it happen. Ankita Kachab says I hope we get the opportunity to read your published book or books in 2026. I shall make it happen. Thank you so much Madam Ankita G for reminding me of this. I need these reminders so that I don't uh get complacent. Thank you so much ma'am for the reminder. Shreas Mitra says thank you for doing these sessions. I am learning so much from these sessions. Heartfelt gratitude to you and for the other members and to the other members who ask amazing questions. Thank you so much Shas to you and to all the members and to everybody who ask questions. My only issue is that I can't answer everybody's questions because I simply can't. But thank you so much everybody indeed very much. Slendy's says your thoughts on ddollarization future of future of India TN what's India TN thoughts on dorization I think eventually it'll happen right it will all depend on how powerful or not the US is as long as the US remains the all powerful entity the dollar will remain super relevant unless India Russia China get together and do something about it along with breaks So it's still you know it's not decided yet whether this will happen but yeah the dollar is getting weaker and one way of the US getting rid of its debt is maybe de you know slowly deflating the value of the dollar that's another thing they could do so we'll see Shashu Zizu Shashu Zizu says is the global south the swing vote in geopolitics there's no voting in geopolitics It's not a democracy. You see the the the global order isn't democratic. It it works on the principle of the rule of the jungle. Might is right. So the global south isn't a swing vote. It has no vote. Only the powerful have a vote or a say. Okay. Hyphen says one more super chat just so that this stream lasts a little few seconds longer. Blockbuster live stream as always. Thank you so much. But thank you very much. Uh it's it's crossed four hours now. Maybe I should stop now. My throat is protesting. But anyway, thank you so much, sir. Thank you so much. Ankura says, "How can we stop ourselves from becoming a vasal?" How can we stop ourselves from becoming a vasal? By becoming more powerful. That is the only solution. By becoming more powerful and having more options. So, one of the options we need to have is our own sources of oil and gas. If we can discover miraculously sources of oil and gas which can provide for all our needs, that gives us tremendous advantages and leverage. That's one thing. The other thing is become more powerful, become a larger economy, become a more powerful military, all of those things. That's how you stop yourself. And also, of course, aligning yourself with like-minded nations, other nations if we can. That's how you stop yourself from becoming a vasal. It's always by having more leverage and more options. And that brings me finally to the end of this live stream. All right, I shall end it over here. Thank you so much everybody for all the questions. It's been a very long one today, more than 4 hours, but it's a privilege to be able to do this with you all. So, thank you so much everyone and I'll see you in next week's live streams. Until then, take care, keep asking questions, keep learning, and keep raising your standards. I'll see you next week. Bye-bye.