[Music] Heat. Hey. Hey. Hey. [Music] Heat. Heat. Good evening and good day everybody and welcome back to the Ask Abijit show I just concluded my first live stream of geio strategy with uh with Abijit Java in case you have watched it thank you very much and I'm sure many of you have come to this live stream from that one and maybe you have questions so I'm happy to take your questions before I do that let me see who all is there on the live chat today with us over here so I can see Baba Abhijit Chava I can see geopolitical Dubai from Indor Amisha Mishra is back hello Mr. 88s Raja Akash Kumar Sini SS Somi Jane Kumar Kanishk Arind Das Bupan Ba uh Prashant Bharat Sika Priyanchi Sudatan Nagarwal only gems Kulip Johan Niha Sharma Ankita Bat first Anand Paynit Singh Kurana Vidi Miar Sanatani Balak Deepika Karnesh Kuraj Anant Chandak Sonia Singha Navin Saiuri, Vimla Chri, Janavi, Tinasekar, Anonymous, Feminist Slayer, Space Striker, Niha, Senu, Nimish, Gupta, Davic, Shrian, Beat Brawlers, Anit again, Da Janavi, Crazy Brain, Nirupan, Rayquel, Rquill, Mi07, Sepk, Rishies, Das Gupta, Sarab, Sharma, Hitend, Takur Gojo Mr. Bin Salman 786 Mloin uh Abi Chandel anonymous space striker Shubam Bosle Suya Singh Prime Somi Jane Anu Diptas Abimmany Takur the DKin DKT and so many other people as Minor Rohan and so on. Thank you so much for being on the live stream. And first of all, let me thank uh okay, who all do we have? Let's take some let's begin with some questions. I will take as many as I can. This will be a roughly 60-minute live stream. It will not be very long, but I'm going to have another one tomorrow. I'm going to be doing doing five ask live streams this week. So, I'm going to curtail the time to about 1 hour. Okay. Uh Ratik P says, "What's Trump's golden doom project all about?" I am not sure. I haven't heard of it. So, so many events are happening right now. Let's quickly Google it. What is Trump's Golden Dome Project? Yeah, let's quickly Google it. Google it. Uh, Golden Dome Project. What is it? It's a missile defense system. Okay. It's a proposed missiles missile defense system. Multi-layer defense system for the US. Well, I think they're learning the the lessons of the various wars. So, it's a proposed multi-layered missile defense system for the US. Okay. Kumar Kanisheska says, "How many no how do goats in barren volcanic island in India the barren island India how are they able to survive there and how do they exist after after several intense volcanic eruptions? Can it help to understand how an ancient animals survived and evolved in the misosoic era? Look, Baron Island is an active volcano. As far as I know, there are two active volcanoes that I know of in India. One is Narokandam and one is Baron Island. So Baron Island is not the kind of volcano that spews immense amounts of lava and pyrolastic flows and all that on on a daily basis. It's kind of active. Sometimes there's a lava flow here and there. It's nothing. I I can't remember the last time there was a serious eruption over there. So as long as there is no serious eruption, you can have life that exists, life forms that exist on the island. So goats live there and whenever there's an eruption they'll move out of the way, move to safety and there's never been an eruption that has blanketed the entire island and wiped everything out. So that's why they they're able to survive. Uh this is unlike humans. We humans we construct buildings and make up make up entire civilizations and that doing that on on a volcanic island can be dangerous because it can it can disrupt normal activity. So that's why humans don't prefer to live on such islands or or in regions close to uh active volcanoes. Well, in Italy we have some like Vizuvius and Sicily sorry Ethna which erupted today. But animals can can survive very easily and they don't have buildings to live in. So even if there's a lava flow and there's some damage, it doesn't make any difference to them. So yeah, they are able to survive because of these regions because of these reasons. Only Jeem says why are Hindus not taught their religion? It's because the education system has decided that we are we should not be taught our religion and that's one of the biggest issues we have in the in the country. The the education system is rotten. It has it's been taken over by the lefties, the communists. They have a strangle hold on the academic system, the education system and they have ensured that we are not taught our culture. We are the only country, only civilization in which you don't teach kids your your culture. So obviously they'll grow up dassinated. The objective is to destroy and eradicate Indian culture, religion and civilization. Kaneshkumar Kaneshka says, "Is it true that the fungi eat that the fungus is eating the elephant foot structure in Chernobyl? If yes, then it can be possible that life may have originated in space eating radiation." Well, um, there are certain fungi that are thriving apparently in the Chernobyl in in the remains of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. I'm not sure if if if there's a fungus that's eating the elephant foot structure, which is essentially the molten nuclear core, the reactor core, right? uh but uh I believe there are there are these funguses that these fungi that are present on all the walls of the control room and other parts of the of the nuclear uh power plant. Nobody goes there but you can sometimes go there very briefly wearing protective equipment can take pictures and see what what's going on you know routine checkups checks of the of the of the of the um power plant and people who went there that way that way have found that there is black fungus that's that's growing on the walls and it is completely impervious to radiation radiation doesn't affect it so even today if you go to the Chernobyl nuclear power plant it's a highly radioactive zone humans any person who goes there without protection is going to get cancer almost guaranteed right but this fungus is thriving there maybe it's it's uh it's absorbing the energy the photons and uh maybe it's it's growing because of that I'm not sure what the biological biochemical mechanism is uh but the fungus is thriving in chronome I don't think it's eating the elephant foot structure but it's thriving um so yeah it's an example of very rapid evolution so fungi are very primitive organisms compared to human beings, right? So, they are able to adapt very quickly. Their their genome is much smaller than ours. So, is it possible that life may have originated in space eating radiation? Anything's possible. Life possibly could have originated in space. It's called the panspermia theory. Right. Next question. Sergeant Skylin says, "Russia is willing to give a full transfer of technology for the SU57E. What's my opinion on this? My opinion is that it's very interesting and it's very if if if it's a genuine full technology transfer offer, then we should close our eyes and take it or rather not close our eyes. Maybe we should evaluate and examine it very very thoroughly. But if it is a genuine full transfer of technology, I mean, come on. Of of course we should we should take it. Um it's it's look, I'm not sure how good or how bad the aircraft is. It's a fifth generation fighter plane. Uh I'm sure it's not fully uh stealth equipped, but I think it's a significant technological leap over anything we have currently and I'm sure it's uh at least comparable to the the the the qualities of the F-35, right? Uh so I think if it's a genuine offer of full technology transfer, we should certainly certainly take it at least build 100 in India at least minimum. Uh but the question is is there a transfer of technology of the jet engine as well? If that's the case then it's even more interesting and then we should even then we should say yes even quicker. The thing is we have the money the funds in India. It's not like we have a shortage of money. We are the fourth no the third largest economy fourth largest economy right in the world. So we have the funds why not deploy the funds acquire the technology buy it. If the Russians are offering it buy it. So I think they should take it if it's a genuine full technology transfer offer. Honey says aliens come and ask you to take me to your your leader. What do you do? I'll say all right. I'll take you to Mr. Modi. That's what I'll do. What what else can I do? Zishan Gaming. Thank you, sir. Uh how significant is Ukraine's recent drone strikes on Russian bases and infrastructure? How does this change security against drone strikes and Russia's what's Russia's reaction going to be like? Does this change the the chance for peace? The drone strikes that that Ukraine conducted yesterday. They are incredibly monumentally significant. It's it's this is a piece of military history we have seen. Russia looks like Russia has been caught napping. Looks like a monumental intelligence failure on on the part of Russia, right? And uh it looks like the Ukrainians have been planning this for more than a year and a half. Looks like Trump was never told about this. Looks like Trump has been caught completely unawares. And this uh is going to make the world take Ukraine way more seriously than before. It's going to world is going to make the world take Zalinsky way more seriously than before. The guy means business now, right? He's determined. Um, now the drone strikes on more than which which seem to have destroyed more than 40 uh strategic bombers of Russia. That's a significant number. It's like 20 30% of Russia's um uh strategic bomber fleet. That is significant. So, it's not going to Russia's capabilities, but this is a significant blow to Russia's military cap capabilities. Uh, and it's going to have a very significant reaction from Russia. Russia will now scramble to move its assets as far away from Ukraine as possible, maybe to the Russian far east. Russia Russia's military establishment may be in some sort of a panic right now because what Ukraine has achieved is incredible. They have struck at Russian assets thousands of kilometers within Russian territory. Incredible. This is a gamecher for warfare, right? Um so now what's the world is going to sit up and notice this. Look at how drones can be used. I mean in the three-day war with Pakistan, operation Sindur, we used various kinds of drones, loitering drones and kami kazi dru and all and so on. The Pakistanis used various kinds of drones. Maybe 1,500 drones were launched in India and those were shot down. But now look at this how drones can be used. This is going to open up a Pandora's box for governments. I think it is going to be one thing that could happen soon is that governments may may soon ban private possession of FPV drones. Today content cre creators and movie makers and all they have these drones which which have these cameras on board 4K cameras and all that FPV drones and those drones can be those are pretty inexpensive and if you talk about Indian rupees maybe one or two lakh rupees in the bigger scheme of things it's pretty inexpensive not for most Indians I understand but um from a military perspective it's super cheap and you can rig the drone to to drop grenades or or explosives or to to do a kamic as a strike somewhere. So I think governments will very rapidly possibly decide to ban private possession of drones because imagine the possibilities. Imagine the possibilities. You can launch terrorist strikes with using drones. A nation like India with more than 100 million illegal infiltrators living in India. Imagine what those what those people can do. None of them have any allegiance to India. None of them have any love for India's culture, civilization or land. They are foreigners who are simply exploiting our our our population and our economy. And they'll be happy to work for Pakistan or China. Imagine such people and you have airports in India that are surrounded by slums in which Bangladesh and Rohingyas and Pakistanis and God knows what else lives. Imagine what they can do. terror strikes using drones. It becomes super easy to do that. I'm sure there are measures in place around airports for jamming of potential drone uh flights and all that but you know there are always counter measures. So this is a huge huge security threat for any any major nation. So yeah, there's going to be a whole paradigm change I think in the way the world looks at drones and and regulates drone ownership and you and use. Now Russia's reaction first of all is going to be initially there would have been a few moments of panic and they will quickly redeploy their assets as far away as possible from Ukraine and they will significantly enhance the security measures they're taking to protect their assets. the retaliation is going to be possibly significant. Um, and Ukraine will maybe face the brunt of that in the coming days, right? Does this change the pl the chance for peace? It's not going to change much in the long-term scheme of thing things, but I think that Russia may be tempted to now quickly put an end to this war. They have allowed this war to meander forever. So maybe Russia will now decide that we will forcefully grab more territory and pound Ukraine more possibly. Maybe there will be retaliation from Ukraine because now they have the green light from the west to use long range strike weapons. So I think this changes the chance for peace significantly. Peace is way more unlikely now. Sonia Sa thank you very much for become becoming a member. Appreciate that. Rahul Lakshmanan says, "What's the Indian government's position on the use of AI and other advanced technologies in the military domain?" I think India is India's government is super enthusiastic about the use of AI and other technologies in the military domain. I think India has embraced AI and high-tech emerging technologies wholeheartedly. We have recently uh tested a scramjet engine. uh 1,00 seconds. That's how long the scramjet engine was tested. That's that's a global first. Of course, it still has to fly, but yeah, we have gone in in the realm of scramjet technology from a non-contender to a frontr runner. We have retrofitted refitted 1940s AI 1940s bow force guns anti-aircraft guns with 21st century technology radars perhaps AI and they now they can now autonomously shoot down drones and and much more. So India has wholeheartedly embraced uh is in the process of wholeheartedly embracing AI and other advanced emerging technologies. one hears that India has directed energy weapons as well, laser beams that can take down uh incoming threats and so on. So yeah, India is doing great on this. I'm I'm really pleased to report this. Uh Arsh Douglra says, "Does Trump really want to sabotage the India US partnership? Is he becoming more anti-India day by day and he now has invested in Pakistan's crypto industry?" Well, Trump is that kind of a guy. No friends, no enemies. I'll do business with anybody. If tomorrow Osama bin Laden turns up and has a business proposal, I'll take it seriously. I'll consider it. He will pose with terrorists or former terrorists. Mr. Al-Shara of Syria, Trump is open to anything. Any anything goes with him. He's a super transactional guy. He's a super short-term guy. he has this tendency of of compro of of perhaps putting long-term interests on the back burner when it comes to uh you know you know replacing them with short-term interests some something I can get tangibly and quickly um and maybe he thinks that when it comes to a nation like India which is not as powerful as China or Russia he can get away with bullying India and India will have no choice but to do what he says um and he has investments in Pakistan his business empire is invested in Pakistan which is one reason why he would not want Pakistan to be destroyed by India. So I don't think he wants to sabotage the India US relationship. He simply believes that he's just too powerful for India to resist. So I can bully India. I can arm press India. I can do I can go ahead and invest in Pakistan and and rescue Pakistan but at the end of the day I will still get what I want from India. That's his calculation. So let's see how that goes. Yeah. Uh Rohan Sunea says, "Don't you think that now it's high time that India should take the AMCA 5.5 generation and join the FrancoGerman 6.5 generation aircraft fighter program. Japan is offering its latest engine. See my dear friends, please understand that France and Germany are part of NATO. NATO is owned by the United States. I'm putting it very crudely, but that is actually the truth. It's actually a fact. NATO is owned by the US. France and Germany are both US vasals. They are proxies for for the US. France has a quasi independent foreign policy. France the India France relationship is actually quite is it's a good relationship. But Germany is not that favorably inclined towards India. Right. Um so if you join an aircraft program which is of joint French German FrancoGerman program I can assure you the Americans will have their eyes and ears and fingerprints all over the place. In every piece of technology, in every every chip, in every line of software code, everywhere the Americans will be there. If you acquire those fighter planes and when you need to use them, they'll not do what you want. We have seen this. We have seen this happening to the Australians. Japan is a nation that's under permanent US military occupation. Japan's economic policy, military policy, and foreign policy are extensions of the US policy. The US decides all these things. So if Japan is see if Mr. Shinszu Abi was offering something, we would take it seriously. He was a nationalist and he was a friend of India. U I don't know who's the prime minister in Japan now. Doesn't really matter. They're all puppets of the US. So the only right way forward for India is to go it alone. If France is willing to sell jet engine technology for a price, we should buy it. If Russia is willing to sell jet engine technology for a price, we should buy it with what does it mean to buy jet engine technology? It means that you should be able to manufacture 100% of the jet engine in India without any foreign supervision or involvement. Which means it's a 100% indigenous engine. That's the only offer we should take. We cannot become part of somebody else's military programs which will that will end up seriously compromising our interests. Right? So please understand that. Okay. Mr. Sharma says how exactly do the people bloodlines and chitham house issue orders to every nation today? So the question you're asking is how the Vatican is super influential, right? And uh many nations in the west look upon the pope as some kind of a world leader, right? Um so it it it goes back I'm not so what is Cham House? Let me just quickly Google that. What's Chitham House? Cham House. Cham House. Okay. Yeah, the chitham house rules. I know I've been part of those chithan. Uh I've been part of an event that was governed by the chitham house rules. So coming back to the to the papacy to the pope. Look, it's an it's a very ancient institution. It's been super powerful in the past. It's the institution that destroyed the Roman Empire, the Western Roman Empire, and it has been enscconced in Rome ever since. And the popes ruled Europe for more than a thousand years. They were the most powerful force in Europe. And the legacy of that is that even today there could be some remnants of power left you know which may not be visible but it may be there. And even today the the many most Christian people see the pope as the leader of their community. And and and therefore because of this legacy this history and the status of the pope pope being regarded by 2 million Christians as a world leader as a consequence of that the Vatican seems it fit seems to see it fit that they can you know or issue directives and orders to various nations and and uh negotiate with a nation as if it's a sovereign entity and so on. It's a consequence of this 1500700 almost year history of of uh this institution. Shibam says why is Japan's AI robot lead lost to the others? Uh Japan was never in the AI race. They have not been allowed to become part of the AI race for the Americans and they have not been allowed to develop superior you know military grade robots by the Americans. So that's why the Americans control everything and that's the short answer. Feminist Slayer says, "Do geopolitical principles are are they also applicable in real life like friendship only for shared interests, power overriding morality, self-interest over everything?" You know, you can be inspired by geopolitical principles, but you can't use geopolitical principles in in things like close family. When it comes to family, you can't use geopolitical principles. You know, you can't have um power overriding morality when it comes to family. You can't have self-interest overriding the needs of your family members. I mean, some people can do that. Those are those people are generally called narcissists. I'm sure we all know of you. Okay? But look, when it comes to business interests, let's say you're an individual, one person, not a company, not a nation, one person. You can use the same geopolitical principles in business. You can use the same geopolitical principles in politics. If you're a politician, if you are a person who is in a situation like you're in an office and you're dealing with office politics, you can use geopolitical principles there. When it comes to close friends, you probably should not do that. You know, friendship is a different thing. uh and when it comes to family, you should certainly should not do that unless you're a narcissist, a manipulator. Uh but yes, you can use geopolitical principles in other aspects of life. That's why especially in business and sports. I remember about 25 years ago when Pat Buchanan was the coach of Australia, the Australian cricket team when Shane Ward, Ricky Ponting, etc. used to play for Australia. He he was very fond of quoting Sununzu the Chinese strategist and uh he made it a point to tell the world that you know I you know I apply geopolitical and strategic principles from the field of warfare in sports and so on. So yeah it has applications everywhere. Uh geopolitical Dubis says how did the Houthi shoot down US stealth jets? Look the Houthis did not shoot down the F-35. It came somehow apparently close to being shot down or going down for some reason. The Houthis shot down F18 fighter planes which are not stealthy fighter planes. Uh the F F18 or F18 is usually used for electronic warfare jamming and such operations. But apparently two of them were shot down by the Houthis. So the Houthis seem to have good missiles, good anti-aircraft missiles. And when you are in range, you know, sometimes it becomes a mathematical prob possibility, a mathematical certainty that if you come within a certain range of a certain missile, you're going to get shot down no matter what you do. Uh so yeah, that's how the Houthis were able to shoot down US jets, but those were not stealth jets. So that's one amendment to our understanding we need to make. Cyclian Ready says, "Is it true the hate of India is spreading by Chinese media or is it the because of the civic sense of our people? As a mechanical engineer myself, how can I tackle AI?" Okay, like at least two different questions here. Um, look, Chinese media is not spreading hate of India. The Chinese media will will talk disparagingly about India and so on but they don't spread hatred of Indian culture of or Indian traditions or Indian people. It's the western media that does this. uh they spread what can be reasonably called Hindu phobia and they spread the narrative that Indian people are extremely I don't know what what are the stereotypes they try to portray that Indians uh smell like curry Indians don't smell well Indians uh um are disorderly perhaps and uh we don't have toilets in India that the same old stereotypical uh jibes you know they they use certain offensive terms, derogatory terms for Indians and so on. This is the western media. Now it's not look the BBC won't do that. They will do it way more subtly. They will never use derogatory words but they will subtly reinforce you know false stereotypes and and so on. And uh if there's a whole infrastructure of media you know from the prestigious outlets to the the pedestrian outlets and then you have social media trolls. So all of that together is deployed against India. So it's not the Chinese media. The Chinese media is not very friendly towards India for sure. Uh but the Chinese media doesn't spread hatred of Indian culture towards Indian culture and Indian people as far as I have seen personally. I may be wrong. In case I'm wrong, please do point out where it is and I'm I'll I'll learn something from that. Yeah. So it's mainly the West that hates India. Why do they hate India? Because we are the last surviving polytheistic culture. We're the oldest surviving civilization in the world and we still haven't been broken by the west. How dare we survive? And that's the that's why they hate us. Uh as a mechanical engineer, how can I tackle AI? Look, AI is a big challenge. Right now, nobody can see it, but in a few years, most pedestrian jobs, most entry- levelvel jobs are going to be replaced by AI. It's coming. As a mechanical engineer, I'm not sure what you can do about AI. AI is in the realm of software and so on. Um but I'm sure that there's going to be an AI influence in mechanical engineering also. So what is what comes under mechanical engineering? It's machinery and stuff like that, right? Machines that build machines and um things like that. Well, you know, AI is is going to be part of that process also, especially in the in design and AI will be uh integrated and married with robotics. So you're going to have AI equipped robots doing a lot of the work that that historically people would do, you know, and so on. So the people who will survive the the coming of AI are the people who what well most people will be unfortunately replaced. The people who will survive and thrive are the ones who think differently. Are the ones who see every problem as an opportunity. The people who will thrive in the AI era are the ones who question, the ones who innovate and the ones who build something, create something. These are the these are the qualities we need to have. So AI is coming in every sector and if we if you are you are somebody who sees this as a tool you can use to do something bigger and create something better then you will be among the few who will survive in that and you and then you will be in control of multiple AI employees. You'll be an AI manager and then imagine how powerful that will make you and how much you'll be able to create with that. So yeah that's a deal. Abijit Sher Rajan says what lessons can we learn from Japan's isolation era? See Japan became very insular, very isolationist for about more than 500 years. Um and because of that they lost contact with the world. They were not able to keep up with what was happening in the world. And when they first came in contact with the Europeans, the Europeans already had way more advanced sailing methods and techniques and ships and they understood navigation much better than than the Japanese. They had uh more advanced weapons than the Japanese. So if you become isolated, if you become an insular nation, you get cut off from what's happening in the rest of the world. You are not aware of the developments. You may not be able to benefit from new technologies that may be emerging. You may not get the intelligence about threats that exist out out there. Uh you may not get access to new knowledge that may be circulating across the world. Um and so on. And if you become insular and isolationist, then um you become scared of everybody. You think everybody is a monster, right? That sort of thing. So multiple lessons can be learned from Japan's isolation era. Um and this eventually was ended by Japan. It was ended by the Japanese bureaucracy, not by the Japanese emperors. That was the period of the Maji restoration in which they said that we will end all our isolationist practices. We will end our long-standing traditions. We will destroy the samurai and shogunit system. We will try and stamp out Buddhism and so on. That didn't quite work. But yeah that that turned Japan into an imperial power and that was eventually the cause of its defeat in the second world war. So they had multiple centuries of isolation. Then they tried to reverse it at at a break neck break neck pace and uh the the end result wasn't very great for Japan. Hardik Jooshi says, "How can we solve India's problem of quality of life, depression, economic gaps? It's mostly the Amani Adani pulling the economy up. How to minimize the gap? How to minimize the gap? We need to become a manufacturing power. We need the only way you can provide so many jobs to people is by becoming a major manufacturing power by replacing China. The West is thinking beyond China. They want to pull out of China. So India is the only nation that can u provide manufacturing at scale. So we have the potential, we have the population, we have all of that but we need to um work on the ease of doing business. We need to work on land acquisition on all that. If we become a major manufacturing power, everybody will have a job, right? And then the quality of life goes up when everybody has a job. uh when everybody uh when everybody starts earning more money and then the GDP per capita goes up and the rise of the GDP per capita number is intrinsically related to quality of life. So right now India's GDP per capita let's say it's $2,000 let's say but China is $10,000 $11,000. So their GDP per capita is about five and a half six times more than us. So then their quality of life is you could reliably say is about five or six times better than us ours. That's how it is. Uh so the government needs to implement reforms big reforms in uh uh in investing in in the ease of doing business uh in welcoming foreign investors uh and so on. And another thing which needs to happen in India is is uh we need to put an end to corruption. One of the biggest reasons why there is such poor quality of life in India cities. I'm sure there are some cities which are wonderful, better than Venice. I'm sure there must be some. But overall it is said that the average city has very terrible infrastructure and quality of life and overall it's it's terrible. Uh so that's that the cause of that is corruption. Okay to put it very um succinctly so India needs to fix that issue the corruption issue it is alleged that it's everywhere and it's what it's the system it is the part of the system that runs the Indian um machinery right so that that that's what needs to happen so India needs to become a major manufacturing power um we need big reforms in the economy in ways of doing business and we need to start a war on corruption. If we do these things, a lot of these problems will eventually be solved. Depression is is is a consequence of very poor living standards and a lack of hope in the future. Right? So all these uh things will will address the problems. Okay. Hush the says Modu Chanu leadership compared to Shingishis Khan. What is Modu Chanu Modu Modu Chanu? What is Modu Chanu? Oh wow. Shau well well I haven't studied this part of history. I haven't studied Shau history. Interesting. Modu Chanu ruled from 209 to 174 BC. Fascinating. He was a military leader under his father Tuman and later Chanu of the Shunyu Empire based on the Mongolian plateau. So I have spoken about the Shyu a lot of times but I have not studied their history. They are the tribal confederation that displaced the Kusans from their homeland in the Tarim River basin region and the Kusans were forced to flee westwards and southwards. They ended up displacing the Skithians who were living in Gandhar and they the Smithians invaded India as a as a consequence and about a century and a half later the Kushans themselves in invaded India. All of this was triggered by the Sha newu expansion and apparently Mulanu was one of the great leaders. So I haven't studied his life history but fascinating I I learned a new name today and maybe sometime if I in the future if I have the time I may read up a little bit about Muduch Chanu so I can't compare the two because I haven't I I've studied only Chingish Khan. So but yeah very interesting. Ankita says, "What will happen to Ukraine now after operation spiderweb on Russia?" So, operation spiderweb was what happened yesterday. The unprecedented Ukrainian drone strikes on Russian military infrastructure destroyed more than 40 aircraft apparently and uh attacked a naval base apparently. There were submarines there apparently. Uh the full details will take time to come out. It's still an evolving situation. What will happen to Ukraine now? Uh Russia may decide. There's a high probability that the Russia now decides that we're going to end the war this season. We will achieve our military objectives, whatever they are, territorial objectives, regime change objectives, whatever the objectives are in the next few months. There's a high prob probability that that happens and that's something I covered just now in the previous liveream geostrategy. So I think there's going to be a a significant Russian retaliation against Ukraine. U Russia is most likely going to pound Ukraine with missile and drone strikes. It's going to most likely target Ukraine's strategic infrastructure, military military infrastructure, possibly cities and maybe there'll be a significant offensive in the Sunumi region in the in in some other parts of Ukraine as well. in in the Sunumi region the there's a significant uh massing of more than 50,000 Russian troops. So that may come into play soon. So I think there's going to be a significant escalation of the war right now and maybe if Russia gets gets their way they may end the war in a few months and obviously the West will try their best to not allow this to happen. But the most likely scenario is escalation significant escalation next 7 to 30 days. significant exclation. Betrine says, "Are there any any physics theories of of everything that you find convincing? Weinstein's geometric unity or Langan's CTMU." Look, there is no theory of everything right now that provides all the answers. A theory of everything has to unify quantum mechanics or quantum field theory with the geometric dynamics which is Einstein's general relativity. It essentially has to give us a way of quantizing gravity. And right now there's no theory of everything that does this. I haven't really studied Eric Weinstein's geometric unity. I haven't had the time to do that. But uh I as far as I know there's no theory that gives gives us gives us the answers. If there was a theory of everything that would actually be able to quantize gravity that would be I mean it would be earth shaking news. There's no such thing. We are nowhere closer to understanding gravity in 2025 than we were in the year 2000. So yeah it's it's a it's a period of stagnation. It's a long period of stagnation in theoretical physics in fundamental physics. The stagnation began in 1979 around 1980. The last big advance big theoretical breakthrough that was proven by experimental evidence. The last such breakthrough was uh Alan Good's theory of inflation. Since then there's nothing. Physics has hit a brick wall and that's where we are. Dish Shukla says you work in so many areas. I do have many interests but I don't know what to do. I'm 27 stuck in corporate life. I want to travel and do something myself. Advice. Look, my advice is this. You want to travel. You want to do something for yourself, something that that is in line with your interests, but you're not able to do it because you're stuck in the corporate world. And why are you stuck in the corporate world? because that's where the money comes from. And if you get out of the cor corporate world, maybe you won't have an income, right? That's that's the issue. What is the source of freedom of personal freedom? It's wealth. So my advice to you is find a way to become wealthy. Now that's a very very very generic advice. Uh it's it's not possible to become genuinely rich, genuinely wealthy working a corporate job. But you can if you if you play the game right, you can have significant savings by the time you're 30, 35 perhaps. Then if you are good at investing or something, you can turn that into some form of wealth. And if you really are if you really have iron in you then after the 9 to5 we can do a 5 to 5 to 12 and do something on the side some kind of side business or something you know um there are multiple possibilities multiple avenues like that the main problem you are facing is that you are financially stuck to the corporate job. So you need to find a way to solve that problem. If you want to travel, if you want to do something else, you're going to need funds. You're going to need money. You're going to need wealth. So, my advice is become wealthy. Find some way based on your strengths and your uh in your characteristics. Find a way to get wealthy to become wealthy. All the best they wish. Rick and Jen says are there any differences as to how the US acts as a superpower and how India is to act as a superpower in let's say Ashok or Chundra Gupta's times okay what's the definition of the term superpower my definition is this a superpower is a nation that can intervene militarily anywhere on the planet at about 60 minutes notice in the 20th century There were two superpowers, the USSR and the US. Both could intervene militarily anywhere in the world at 60 minutes notice. Today there's only one, the US that can do that. China can't do it. Russia can't do it. India can't do it. My my question is this. Was India a superpower in Ashok's time or Chad Gupta's time? Could India intervene militarily anywhere on the planet at 60 minutes notice? India could not. Nobody could. So there were no superpowers back then. There were empires and we were a major empire. We were the richest empire during the Morian Morian era and uh we had a significant hedgemony over the region. I'm sure I'm sure we did not use that but we were a net significantly massive net exporter of culture and I'm sure we had influence we had military relations with Greece by the way an alliance with the Greece with the Greeks with the Seucid Empire and all that. So India was not a hegemonic power overall. India was a very benevolent power. India did not try to ever invade Persia. India did not ever in during the Morian era. We never tried to fight with the Persians. They were our cousins, right? Why fight them? One thing is very interesting in history. Persia India never fought. The Persians never launched the kind of invasion on India that they they were repeatedly launching towards the west. Never. Never. the thought never arose right because it's a family it's a blood relationship um so India was not a hgemonic power India did not arm twist other nations India did not plunder other nations India did not occupy other other nations territory and so on so it's very different from the way US acts today the US physically occupies some nations militarily Japan South Korea Italy Germany find out and it uses other nations as proxies by creating these these intricate alliances NATO EU it uses other proxies as proxies to to expand to to to project power historically the US used France as a proxy to project power in in a in various parts of Africa and so on so that's the kind of power the US is that's the kind of empire the US is it's a hegemonic empire there are two kinds of empires two types of empires if you read Dr. Edward Lutwak's book the grand strategy of the Roman Empire which was written probably in the 1970s he defines there are that there are two kinds of of empires a hegemonic empire and an empire that's based on occupation on on military occupation on territorial occupation. So if you want to occup to to base your power on territorial occupation of other nations that is very energy intensive takes a lot of your resources to militarily have foot boots on the ground but if you can do it hegemonically by creating vasal states you never have to put boots on the ground you never have to spend so much money and resources so the US is that kind of empire it's kind of balancing two things but it's mostly hegemonic and it It occupies militarily only a few countries. India has never been that sort of an entity. So very different. Bimosha Kandel, thank you very much for your contribution. Really appreciated. You didn't you didn't ask a question but you contributed. Thank you very much. Thank you. Vive Singh says India's government has been pushing back some Bangladesh issues. How do you think the Bangladesh government will react and what should be our counter? I think the Bangladesh government may try to resist some of this. I've heard some some dissatisfaction coming from the Bangladeshi government about India pushing Bangladeshes back into Bangladeshi territory. Um my so what will Bangladesh do? It depends on the scale at which we are pushing back the illegal infiltrators. If we are pushing back 100 200 a day, it may evict it may even a certain kind of response. But if we are pushing back 10,000 a day, that will have a totally different kind of response. See, we most likely have about a 100 million Bangladeshes squatting on Indian territory. 100 million. Let's say you want to send them back in 10 years. That means that you have to send back 10 million a year, right? So every month essentially every 36 days you to send back 1 million 10 lakhs which means every 3 and a half days you to send back one lakh which means every day you have to send back 30,000. If we are doing that, there's going to be a very very uh severe uh set of complaints coming from Bangladesh. They will go and cry to the world that the Indians are flooding us with refugees or whatever and this is a humanitarian crisis and so on. And then the world gets involved in this. They say it's a humanitarian disaster and so on and they'll then want to accuse India of human rights violations and uh so on so forth that sort of thing. uh so it depends on the scale at which we are pushing people back. right now if you're put pushing 100 200 500 a day um the Bangladeshes are already kind of complaining the the fact is that Bangladesh can do nothing about this if we decide to push everybody back they have to accept those people it's not like they can resist us right uh but yeah this is an evolving situation I hope we send every Bangladeshi back every illegal Bangladeshi back the ones who have come to India legally please feel free to be here legally we have nothing against We have an issue with the illegals. Every person who has entered India legally is welcome to stay as long as they are legally allowed. No issue with that. So I think it's high time we we do that. Um Bimar Shaandal says has the world war started can b can give brief info chances of Russia to use nukes. Give me your opinion. Is this the beginning of world war? I hope yesterday there was talk of World War II starting. So after this operation spider web, the Ukrainian strikes that destroyed allegedly more than 40 Russian long-range strategic bombers, there was speculation that Russia may use may resort to the use of tactical nuclear weapons, not strategic weapons, but tactical nukes, low yield, kiloton yield nuclear warheads. Um it's not happened and thankfully it's not happened. I'm I'm glad it's not happened. We don't want that. Um so look, world war means US and Russia are fighting. That's a world war. If the US and China are fighting, that's not a world war. Only US, Russia, them fighting makes it world war. And then there's a very very very significant chance of nuclear escalation. So what's the chances of Russia using nukes? I think the chances are low right now. They have been bit hit very hard. They've lost about 20 30% of the strategic bomber fleet, which is a disaster, but they still have about 70% roughly of their bomber strategic bomber fleet. And uh they're going to secure that now very very seriously. And they're going to most likely hit Ukraine hard in retaliation. I don't think they will use nukes on Ukraine. Doesn't make sense from my perspective. they can hit Ukraine hard using conventional means and without the need to use nuclear weapons. So I don't think this is the beginning of World War II. not yet and I hope it never happens but this is not the stage but Ukraine is now becoming a more significant more pronounced flash point and uh especially given what happened yesterday and the the west having given Ukraine the permission to use long range weapons that can strike deep within Russian territory I think the the Ukrainians are going to start using that and in case there they use let's say German weapons to strike Russia deep inside Russia Russia may strike at Berlin. So if that happens then we are a step closer to World War II because then the US may feel feel compelled because of NATO uh commitments to defend Germany and so on. So if Ukraine uses longrange weapons against Russia that the Germans and the Americans have given then Russia will most possibly strike at Germany in German territory. that brings into action the NATO clauses that an attack on one member state of NATO is an attack on all of them and then that we are closer to World War II. So I think it depends on what Ukraine does now. Vidi says what's the best veg protein source which is not high carbs? Uh paneer. Uh paneer is dense. It is it has way more protein per uh than milk obviously per same volume but it is it is high in fat as well but it has next to no carbs. So when it comes to protein sources with with which are veg but low carbs, I think it's milk and paneer only. Maybe tofu also perhaps. I'm not sure if tofu tofu has carbs. I would go with paneer. And paneer is obviously tastier than other non-veg sources. So I would say I I would go with paneer. Saiti jared. Thank you very much sir. Thank you very much. Rdra says what will Russia react according to old or new doctrine? I think Russia will react by first of all moving its strategic bomber fleet further away into its hintterlands and secondly it's going to react by pounding Ukraine the next few days and Russia may decide may have decided to end the war in the next 3 to 6 months now by by achieving their military and political objectives. So that's how I think Russia will react. We're going to see a significant uptick in the war and it's going to be a significant escalation go in the next week or two. That's what I see happening. Sait ready says is it okay to purchase electric car in 2025 in India. Um as long as the car is good and it has a good endurance. I mean how many kilometers does it go between charges and all? I would, if I were to purchase an electric car, I would want it to go at least 100 km before being charged again at least. Um, and I would I want it to have the same performance, the same speed, the same pickup, the same kind of thing as a regular car. Should look good also. If I'm paying money, good money, then it should look good and so on. Um, and I'm not sure which vehicles are in the market. There are hybrid vehicles and maybe electric vehicles also. So, it depends on various factors and it depends on your personal choices, but I think it's certainly okay to purchase an electric car if it makes sense for you. Uh, United Alliance 14 says, "Are you excited to play GTA 6 or the 26th of May 2026?" Grand Theft Auto. I've never played the game. I'm not much of a gamer. I I was one of the guys who bought the the brand new PlayStation 2 when it came out. You know, I had a few games I used to play on that. There was this game called, what was it called? It was something about car crashing cars all all over the place. Now, I played a game called Dynasty Warriors and something some Star Wars game also. I've never played GTA 6. Uh, and today we don't have the PS2 anymore. I I gave mine away. Uh, today is a day of it's the era of PS5 and and Xbox and all that, right? But yeah, I've never played the game and uh I don't have the time to game. I would love to game again. Uh but uh yeah, no time. So I think I'm going to skip GTSX whenever it comes out 26th of May 2026. Kapai developer says, "How do you think AI, which is LLM?" First of all, thank you for the contribution. How do you think AI or LLM is going to shift management in the private sector? I notice resistance from the top leadership to the use of AI in example for example HR departments as for founders how do we market look HR folks will be the first to resist okay and the first adopters of AI will be the people the tech folks not all the tech folks not the low-level tech folks who are going to be replaced uh the highskilled tech folks the ones who want to innovate they will see AI as an opportunity to innovate. Let's leverage AI and innovate more. I wish I had 10 employees who were like top class coders, but I only have 10 employees who are mediocre coders. But now, if I have AI, then I can get rid of the mediocre coders and have top class coding AIs to help build and execute my vision. Right? So it's those folks who will want to be the early adopters of AI in any private sector company especially software companies and so on. Top leadership will be happy as long as it makes money. If you can demonstrate to top leadership that it is a money spinner. Oo they'll love it. They'll love it. Look you spend so much money on employees. You have to spend so much time training employees when they first come in. Then you have to monitor them. Some are lazy. Some are demotivated, some lack talent, some lack lack whatever else. It's only the like 2% who are really top top class employees, right? And those are the ones who who rise and become leaders. So if if you're a founder, if you're in the top leadership, you'll be happy with the adoption of AI. Then you'll just need a few people to manage the AI. So you're going to significantly downsize in that case while becoming more productive. The HR departments will complain. HR folks are the HR folks you know how they are right we all if you've been in the corporate sector ever you know how HR folks are super you know patronizing patternalistic and so on so forth the least productive I'm sure there are some who are good I'm sure there some of them contribute to the company well and all but overall we know how they are there are different set of people um so forget talking about the HR departments once you once you have AI employees what will HR do first of all right uh so that's the thing so I think once AI becomes uh a thing in various industries it's going to be a very different kind of setup in every every every company excuse me managers will be managing AIS teams of AIS that's what's going to happen and if you're a founder then it's it's it's a great time for you. You can uh you know uh do more while spending less. You will just need to have a few people who know how to manage AIS. That's that's where we going. That's the direction in which the world is going. Kapay Kapay developer says could you please expound on foiman probes? Foiman probes are um it's it's a theoretical thing. It's never been done. But these are rep self-replicating robotic probes who go to other planets who who go to other worlds, other star systems looking for planets that are that are suitable for human habitation. And uh if they find such a planet, then they will send signals back to humanity that you know we found this thing, you can come and settle over here. It's a good place for human habitation. And in case they they are running out of fuel or something they can land on on another planet which may not necessarily be suitable for human habitation but which will have the resources to build more of these one no one pro probes. So the the probe has the tools to build more probes like itself using raw materials from other worlds. So it goes and lands there. It builds more probes. The other probes also then set out and look for more worlds for humans to inhabit. That I believe, if I remember correctly, is the concept of the fun Noan probes. Very interesting sci-fi concept. Maybe it'll become reality someday in the future. Literally, officer K says, "In all honesty, why does Pakistan get away with it? They've done several genocides, ethnic cleansing, and war crimes. Why does the world not react? The world does whatever the media tells them, thinks whatever the media tells them to think. The media, it's all about propaganda. It's the biggest propaganda machine in the world. And the media we're talking about is the western controlled, western dominated English speaking and western languages speaking media. For these nations which are led by the US, Pakistan serves a very important role. Pakistan is very valuable. It serves the purpose of destabilizing India and keeping India off balance. The west doesn't want India to rise again after a gap of almost a thousand years. They don't want after a gap of about 500 years. They don't want us to rise. They want us want us to remain down because if we rise historically we were the greatest largest economy for the most part of history they don't want us to become the most powerful economy once again most powerful nation once again. So that's why you need nations like Pakistan to keep on damaging India to keep on bleeding and you know uh hammering away at India and if Pakistan does that then everything is forgiven. They will keep quiet about what Pakistan has done to Hindu population. They'll keep quiet about what about what they've done what they are doing in the process of doing to the Baljasthan to the Pakun Pakun people ethnic cleansings war crimes and they will keep about Pakistan being the world's epicenter of terrorism. They will now say that the Sahil region is the world's epicenter of terrorism and so on. Pakistan gets away with it because it it is a mercenary nation that that offers valuable services to the west. That's why Pakistan gets away with it. Joy Dev Takar says Bouge awaits veiled. Oh yes, I have seen your email. I will respond to it as soon as I can. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Vid says I'm 23 with a degree in AI, no experience. interested in bureaucracy and serving society but failed UPSC. People say this exams and bureaucracy is a waste. Am I wasting potential or should I trust my gut? Look, if it's been if it's been a lifelong aim of yours and if it's something that you are passionate about, then you should certainly follow it. But if you think that it's but if if the reason for uh you know pursuing the UPSC and bureaucracy is because you think it'll make money and all then maybe not not the right thing. But it looks like you are interested in bureaucracy because you want to serve society. In which case it's okay to spend maybe two three years trying for the UPSC. So the UPSC exam has a very very low probability of success. Only about a thousand people get through and millions millions are competing for it, right? Millions take the sit for the exam. So the probability of success is very low first of all. But yeah, some of some people are super intelligent and they are really good at this. So maybe if you're one of them, you can try for a year or two, but don't spend 7 8 years of your life chasing this. Try it for a year or two, but you have a degree in AI, which means you have some skills. You may not have experience, but you could leverage that too. And you could serve society using AI as well. Uh so I would not say you you're wasting your potential. You're still very young. You're 23. I think you can afford to spend a year or two maybe even three years at most I would say uh pursuing your dream of uh being a bureaucrat and serving society by by doing that. So but don't waste too many years of your life doing that two three years at at most I would say then you need to look at other options and life gives you lots of options. So yeah, all the best sir. I'm so glad you want to serve society and I hope that you get to serve society to the fullest of your potential in whichever field uh works out for you whether it's bureaucracy or or something else. So all the best sir. Suman Vikran Panda says did do you think the CIA conceals info to its president? Look the US president gets a daily intelligence brief. It's given by the CIA, the FBI and the director of the national intelligence services which is Tulsi Gabbard. So Tulsiabad or some minions under her will collect information from all the services and synthesize it and give the info to the president. Now you can't give all the information to your president. You can only give the most high impact developments and so on that sort of daily briefing to your president. So that way it's very easy to conceal info if you want to. Uh Jot Joti Viri says what's the situation of Indian students in the US? Are students being kicked out for giving political speeches or are they being affected at random? Look, students have no business giving political speeches and becoming politically active in a country where you're not a citizen. If you do that, you should be kicked out. If you are there as a student, it means most likely your parents are paying money, lot of money for that. Don't waste the money and the time that you've been given and the opportunity you've been given by indulging in political activism. Get your study and and acquire a degree. That's it. Uh so first of all, that's what I have to say. That's the first thing I have to say. Uh secondly, uh there is increased scrutiny on foreign foreign students under the Trump regime, right? uh they're going to scrutinize all the visa applications like they're going to do it like uh much more seriously than before. Uh they're going to look into every student's past and the social media accounts and what they've been saying and all and maybe some students could be deported because of that. So I think it's it's not a very good time to be a foreign student in the US. Uh they're essentially going after Chinese students primarily but who knows Indians could be next. uh and there is a rise of anti-Indian sentiment in the US and in the west generally for various reasons. So Indian students should be careful in the US. I don't think they are being targeted or affected at random. Right now the Chinese are being selectively targeted because Chinese have a history of allegedly spying in the US and extracting valuable information technologies and so on. So the Americans are going after the Chinese first but who knows about the Indians. Maybe that could happen to Indians as well. So I think it's it's if you are thinking of considering the US as a place where you want to go for your studies, I think it's time to kind of give it more serious thought. Right. Okay. Uh please stop now uh doing the super chats because I'm going to wrap up very soon. Um yeah, so I'll take a few more questions. Obviously I'll finish all the super chats. Hush says if democracy gives equality to to all then what will be the scenario when AI gets elected democrat democratically would humans accept it? Look for AI for an AI system to get democratically elected you're going to need changes to the constitution and the laws of a country to allow an AI to stand for election. And for those laws to be changed in the constitution to be amended, it means that humans will have to do that first. Right? Which means that humans are okay with AI coming to power. So logically AI can stand for election only when humans first change the constitutions constitution and the laws in which case humans are okay with it. So then humans would certainly accept an A getting elected. See logic. Prelt says, "What happens when people become useless after AI comes? What pillars may fall if India was possibly collapsing? How universal basic income could impact India?" Look, if people become useless after AI comes, I know what you mean. People get replaced, uh jobs take away all automated and low-skilled jobs. I mean, AI takes takes over all the um lowskilled jobs, lowskilled labor, uh and entry- level jobs and all that. what what can I do? Most people are are in such low income uh low skill and entry- level jobs, right? So, what do you do about that? So, what happens when AI takes over is that the industry the the sector the company becomes way more productive and makes way more money which means the government gets way more taxed. So, then these people who become let's say hypothetically jobless in the future because of AI I think the government will have to provide for them. There will be no other option. So like you say universal basic income that's that's one way of going one one way of doing it you know um so it's still all hypothetical but it could happen. So maybe the government will have to take the responsibility of providing for the people who have been made redundant by by artificial intelligence systems in their various respective uh sectors. Uh so that's the that's the solution that one can think of right now. Jagen says, "My question is how difficult is it going to be to maintain strategic autonomy with a non-aligned policy? Both the US and China are have strategic have significantly trying to encircle India in our backyard." Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Um we don't have a non-alignment policy. Don't non-alignment is a thing of the 20th century. It was Mr. Neu's policy and the policies of various subsequent Indian governments. Today we have a multi-alignment policy. We are aligned with everybody. We are friends with everybody. We will engage with everybody. We'll do business with everybody. We'll trade with everybody. And wherever we have strategic alignment, we will do strategic partnerships but not alliances with with wherever we have strategic convergence. So that's not non-alignment, it's multi-alignment. and its strategic autonomy which means that we will not take anyone's side and we will not take the side of the US or China when it comes to their um their confrontation and their adversarial relationship. We'll stay out of it. We'll cooperate with both as far as possible. How difficult is it going to be to maintain this position? It's going to be difficult. Trump wants India to bend over. Trump wants India to do whatever he's asking us to do. He wants us to have zero tariffs to to completely open our market to US products and if we accept that they will say that okay now you need to be on my side with China and you need to impose sanctions on Russia. So we have refused to do these things right. We are currently engaged in trade negotiations with the US. I don't think we're going to give them zero zero tariff zero tariff policy and we have we have resisted significant US and western pressure. um to participate in the sanctions sanctions regime against Russia. So it's difficult but it's important we do this otherwise we become a puppet just another puppet. So it's going to be difficult. There's going to be a lot of pressure increasingly more pressure but it's something we have to do. Uh the US and China are definitely both trying to encircle us in our own backyard. The Americans did a regime change in Bangladesh. They turned it into East Pakistan again and they need a regime change in Pakistan as well in 2022 by ousting Imran Khan and getting a puppet as as prime minister. So East and West Pakistan are both US vasals today. The Chinese are trying their own games in the region. The string of pearl strategy and so on. They're trying to encircle us all themselves. So it's a difficult neighborhood for us. But we are 1.4 billion of us. So let us not be discouraged. We will find a way. Gor Seak says, "Is there a deep state in India?" Because BJP top leaders sometimes speak absolute nonsense. For example, Mr. Modi said, "I'm non-biological." Which gives chance to leftists. Um, okay. I'm I'm not aware of this non-biological thing. Um, sometimes leaders speaks speak leaders speak nonsense. I is I'm sure it's it's possible that that happens sometimes from some leaders. Um is there a deep state in India? What does this have to do with a deep state? Uh look when it comes to the deep state that people talk about of the US it is this alleged entity this extra democratic extra electoral extra government center of power uh that controls the nation allegedly and its economy and everything else allegedly that's the deep state we don't know what it is it's not just the bureaucracy it's a small number of people allegedly who do that do we have such a thing in India look in any country you're going to have extra democratic extra electoral centers of power because the nation state system and democracy all these things are very new things and old systems persist in some way or the other. So you're going to have that but I don't think we can call it India's deep state. So I would not say that there is a deep state in India the way you probably have in the US. SKK welcome to the channel. Thank you so much for becoming a member. I appreciate that very much. Thank you. Speed says, "Sir, how to establish deep state? Love you, Sar." Okay. All right. How to establish deep state? Uh, you have to subwo a nation. You have to hide everything you're doing. You have to have access to tremendous amounts of wealth and you to deploy that wealth to with the purpose of um of of acquiring strategic assets which are which are institutions, people and so on. Very easy to say but very difficult to do. ICMBB says, "Is it possible that the US used the IRA against the UK?" Oh no, you can't say such things. How can you say such things? That is blasphemy. That's taboo. Isn't it funny? The IRA was such a thorn in the flesh of the UK when for decades when it it was at the peak of its uh activities when Margaret Thatcher was the prime minister. the iron lady who stood up to the US and the moment the lap dog Tony Blair comes to power the IRA puts down its weapons. What can I say? Coincidence? Do you have coincidences in geopolitics? Saitar says, "Do you think hydrogen cars will replace electric cars in India within the next 10 years? How much sustainable are these hydrogen cars? could happen. I think the government has this initiative uh of using uh of of of uh you know using hydrogen vehicles of making hydrogen powered vehicles mainstream in India. I think it's a good initiative. The only byproduct or waste product of hydrogen combustion is water vapor. And if you're talking about hydrogen fuel cells, then that's a different technology. Um, so will hydrogen cars replace electric cars in the next 10 years? I think hydrogen cars could become hydrogen powered cars could become a significant uh sign could could represent a significant percentage maybe 10 20 30% of vehicles in India. It's possible. I don't think they will completely replace electric cars unless uh we develop some groundbreaking technology and become a world leader in that technology. Uh how sustainable are hydrogen cars? Um it depends on if it's fuel cell technology which has hydrogen. I don't remember how it really works. I had studied that when I was a kid. Uh but if you're talking about hydrogen combustion, well that's what you have in rockets essentially. Um hydrogen combustion means you burn hydrogen with oxygen to form form form water vapor essentially. How sustainable? I think it could be super sustainable if you get it right, if you get the technology right. Adme says, "What if India was US ally after 1947 and weak USSR?" What if India was a US ally after 1947? Well, it depends. It would have gone two ways. If we played the Wasal game, we would have become a complete US vasal. Um, and the US would have leveraged us against the USSR as well as China. And then maybe China would not have become a big thing because they had India. So if India became a complete US vasal then maybe China's rise would never have happened. India would have risen in its place. But India would have been significantly compromised in various ways because India is a US facile. But if India is a US ally without becoming a puppet or a vasal then India could have done really well potentially as long as India did not come in the way of the US interests in the cold war and India became a manufacturing hub for the for the US India could have thrived really well. Um yeah so it would all depend on the leadership. It all boils down to leadership always. So India could possibly have done well with the right leadership if India had chosen to become an American ally. Jugen says, "What's your views on USS space force? Are they planning to use to place nuclear weapons in space and launch from there?" We don't know what the plans are, but they have a space force. And by the way, the Americans have tested nuclear weapons in space before. Uh let me show you. Let's let's Google this together. Um US nuclear test in space. It was called Starship something starfish prime. They conducted nuclear tests in space the Americans. Okay. And you can read all about it. Uh so it's not like it's some new thing deployment of nuclear weapons in space. It's an old idea. It's why the space race started after the Russians placed Sputnik in orbit in 1957. The Americans, yeah, they were in a state of panic. We have to catch up otherwise we'll have nuclear weapons orbiting above us. So, it's not a new thing. It's possible that they may secretly be planning to place whatever in space. It's possible for sure. Vic Post says, "I live in the US, but I'm worried about cultural abraheimization of India." Like Chanaki said, we can only protect ourselves. um until we protect our culture but the west imposes conversions on India. You are right um cultural abraimization is a very big uh threat that India is facing. The west imposes conversions on India. There are industrial scale Christian conversions that have happened in the past in India's far east. Most of the states of Nagaland Misoram have been completely Christianized. Mizoram completely gone. Nagaland also to a very large extent. All the beautiful indigenous culture wiped out. Now they're doing it to Banipur. It's also happening in Arunach Pradesh. All of this happened during Mr. Neu's time. Right? And now you have this being deployed unleashed on the remaining parts of India. One hears there are tens of thousands of people converting to Christianity every day apparently in Punjab. They're targeting the tribal belts of India. the people who have been who whose whose ancestors were horribly impoverished by the British. So they're targeting the the most vulnerable uh sections of society. It's happening in to a large extent to a significant extent in uh in other parts also in in southern India and so on. And we are allowing this to happen. So I don't know what it is and why it's happening and why it's being allowed but this is an assault on Indian civilization and culture. Um and this should be banned actually this is this is you know industrial scale demographic re-engineering that the west is doing. So I think it's it's incumbent on the Indian government to do something about this but your worries are very well founded. It's happening in real time and it's terrible. Noil Sony, first of all, thank you very much. I hope fully GOI seeks your advice before before your 999th video. Maybe they will. Look, even if they're listening and they implement something, I'm happy with it. Yeah. So, anyway, thank you so much, sir. Thank you. Neil says, "Is the environmental crisis real or exaggerated?" Look, much of it is real. Climate change is real. Some of it is a natural thing. Some of it is human mediated, human-caused. The billions of tons of plastic in the ocean are real. Microplastics everywhere are real and so on. So much of it is real. You can't say it's exaggerated, but there's nothing most likely anybody can do about it. That's a sad thing. Barav says, "Does Ukraine want to deliberately escalate? If yes, would it succeed? Is the IT job market in India going to suffer?" Ukraine has deliberately escalated. what they did yesterday, operation spiderweb or whatever they call it, is a deliberate escalation and they know that Russia will then retaliate. Russia has no no option but to retaliate. So Ukraine has deliberately chosen the path of escalation. I mean you can't you can't blame them because they're in a war with Russia. Uh but will they succeed? What what what is su success from Ukraine's perspective? Ukraine has two options. either you completely defeat Russia, inflict a comprehensive and complete military defeat on Russia or end the war. Do you think Ukraine is in a position to comprehensively defeat Russia? It's not. So, it's not going to succeed. Is the IT job market in India going to suffer? It's going to suffer because of AI, not because of the Ukraine war. AI will take over everything. Rishab Yadav says, I want to serve our nation. I'm 23. bureaucracy interested in bureaucracy law and also armed forces. I am disheartened because honest officers are often sidelined in their fields what to do. Such is the system in India. It's it's what it is. Like I've said many times, India needs to at some point in time launch a war against corruption because then honest people because of the system honest people get disheartened and and the crooked people allegedly they thrive. It's terrible. So the question is what can you do sir? Bureaucracy I think you should stay away from it. law law also can be really disenchanting once you see how things are done. Yeah. Armed forces I think armed forces it's a different story. I don't think uh I think ar the armed forces have a different set of standards better set of standards than the bureaucracy the law and all that all that. So I think if you want to serve the nation and you want honest people around you I would say go to the armed forces. I will not guarantee that everybody will be honest. Okay. there's always some problems over or the other but overall I think the armed forces have much higher standards than than the other uh sectors of services. So I would say if you want to remain honest if you don't want to partake in corruption and you want to serve the country I think the armed forces are the best way to do it. Okay sir all the best all the best. Lalit Adita says UK is preparing for war with the tiny 91k British army against Russia. Also her thoughts on recent drone attack by Ukraine and Russia. The UK is a nation with an with an inflated sense of self-importance. The UK was relegated to the position to the status of a third rate world power in 1956 after the debacle of the Suis crisis in which the US publicly humiliated the UK. But they still have these delusions of grandeur. So they think that by by by a war of words they can defeat Russia by posturing that we we will do this and we'll do that. It's it's it's it's a has been nation and they will soon become the Islamic Republic of whatever. So let's not worry about them. The recent drone attack on on Russia by Ukraine is a major escalation and there's going to be serious consequences in the next days and weeks. Anish says, "Is virtual Bible school kids camp or conversion school?" Yes, it is. Yes. TJ 6789 says, "I found that Hiro and Hiroshma and Nagasaki are not radioactive as the bombs exploded 500 meters in the air. Will Russia or India apply the strategy when the time comes? I hope. Nobody ever detonates a nuclear weapon in the future. I hope so. And if you want to use nuclear weapons, you don't if you are in a situation where you are forced to use nuclear weapons, uh you will use them to the best of your ability. So I don't know what kind of weapons uh we have. Do we have proximity fuses or do we have impact fuses? I'm not sure how it works, what our systems are like. Uh but we're not going to worry about what's going to happen 50 100 years down the line. When you when you are in a position where you are forced to use nuclear weapons, it's probably a matter of survival or or extinction. At that point in time, you don't think about what will be the situation in the place where the bomb explodes 100 years down the line. You don't worry about that. Uh so yeah, that's not a consideration ever. Okay, I will take this last question today and that's it for today. Paras Vidi says, "What kind of corruption India has in education and health? Will India ever be able to grow even with the best government that we have till now?" Look, education and health are very different sectors in education. Uh so all all kinds of issues. Let's say you are doing a PhD. Okay, it's very easy to get a fake PhD none allegedly. It's very easy to get somebody write your thesis for you allegedly. Okay, that's a very easy and you can allegedly buy degrees allegedly. That's corruption in education. And then um there's also corruption in paper publication and all that. There are all these fake journals, this predatory journals that uh will allow you to publish any kind of research paper without it being peer- reviewed for a price. So that's corruption and so many more things. I mean I can go on and on about education in health. I can't think of case studies or you use cases for health corruption or examples of health corruption but I'm sure uh it's there as well. I think allegedly every sector allegedly in India allegedly has corruption right so it's what it is uh will India ever be able to grow even with the best government we have till now you know India is growing at six seven whatever% per year despite all the problems imagine if we remove the problems what will happen India will I promise you grow at 15% a year uh so India will keep growing despite all the problems but hopefully the government does something about corruption then India will be totally unleashed unshackled and that's what I would love to see. All right my friends that's the end of today's live stream. All right. Uh is this okay? Okay. So one last question I will take. Major restoration was a two-edged double-edged sword. Missionaries destroyed culture plaza destroyed economy. The plaza accords. Yes. Also did US nuke Japan even though they surrendered evil. So the major resolution was a double-edged sword. It made Japan a modern nation. It destroyed Japan's culture. They tried to destroy Buddhism and eradicate Buddhism from from Japan. And the problem it caused is that Japan became kind of culturally rootless because of the major restoration. Japan lost touch with its cultural roots. If Japan had remained a Buddhist nation, if the Japan Imperial Army had remained rooted in Buddhist Dharmic values, they would never have done the things they did. But then they would not have been able to conquer so much. So yeah, you're right. It's a double-edged sword. Missionaries destroyed culture. There is a missionary influence in Japan today, unfortunately. Sadly. Yeah. And South Korea is destroyed by missionaries and the Plaza Accords destroyed the economy. You're right. Uh did the US nuke Japan even though they surrendered? What what one learns in history books is that the Japanese surrendered because they were nuked twice. Until then, they were not ready to surrender. So So all right. Uh thank you everybody for all your questions. I'm going to end the live stream over here today and I will see you tomorrow in two live streams. The first one is the Indian interest which returns after a gap of more than two years and immediately after that there will be another episode of ask. Thank you so much for your questions, for your viewership, and I will see you very soon in the next live stream. Keep asking questions, keep raising your standards. Thank you very much. Bye-bye.