[Music] Hey. Hey. Hey. [Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Hello, good evening everybody. Good evening, good day wherever you are in the world, whether it's day or night. Welcome to episode 264 of the Ask a Bidget Show. I hope everybody is doing great. Today we have no super chats. Everybody, I hope you all asked good questions. Please do. But before we get into the questions, let's see who all is there on the live chat. I can see Britishes. I can see Sharma. Uh Dave Dave from Yeah. Dave, Ritik, Pawar, Satish, Dave, Yashika, Jet, Malani, Geopolitical Dub, our good friend from Indor, Zeba, Badada, Unknown, GK, Anonymous Scientist, Boswar, Vehav, Kanadia, Swami, Jan, Yashwan, Sudir, Niha, Sharma, Rashmi, Ratour from Rajasthan, hello Martian from Mars. Hello. Flick edits. Avin Dirj Kamat says good morning. Well, good morning to you. Chira Gavasti says good evening. Well, thank you. Good evening. Geost strategy was amazing. Well, I'm glad you liked it. Sedat Adika likes the geopolitics series. I'm glad you do. Suash Reddi Haran Gokul Big Smoka. Praal from Kolkata. Aayush Singh, Pratam Sharma, Rohan, Hitanua, Barat First, Duv Durya, Tanmay Pande, Hayatim Roy, freedom from outcome from Canada. Kiraasti, anonymous scientist again. Nabanita Das, Dungar Singh, Johan is excited for World War II. Well, I'm not, sir. I'm not. Um, Udai Kiran Commando is here. Martian is concerned about my my health. My health is fantastic. Well, thank you for asking. Anyway, Lone Walker and so many other people. Okay, let's take some questions. Let's take some questions. Let's begin with our friend Panoi. Prrenai from Kolkata. Okay, what's the question? The US has bombed Iran's nuclear facilities and yet Iran hasn't retaliated. What does this silence indicate? Is regime change now inevitable or is Iran playing a longer game? Well, if you did watch my geost strategy episode 8, I I have estimated that the probability of regime change in Thran is 6% over the next 6 months. So, it's a pretty low probability um because of variety of factors. Watch the episode, you will know. Um so, yeah, Iran, the US has bombed Iran's nuclear facilities. Iran hasn't retaliated. Why is it so? Why is Iran not retaliating? First of all, there's a tremendous geographical distance between Iran and the US. How do you retaliate against the US when it's thousands, tens of thousands of kilometers away, 10,000 plus kilometers away? How do you do that? Does Iran have the means to retaliate that far? And if it does, doesn't it invite even more and even harer uh responses from the US? Right. So, Iran is being, I think, pragmatic. they understand that you can't mess with the US. The US is way too powerful. Um, so that's one reason. Secondly, it could also indicate that the Iran Iranian nuclear facilities aren't destroyed. We have seen satellite evidence that the Iranians were removing materials and possibly something some other stuff, maybe equipment, etc. from the facilities a couple of days before they were bombed because Mr. Trump has been signaling this for the past two weeks that you know your nuclear facilities could be bombed. He's been signaling this very publicly, maybe maybe deliberately to give Iran an indication of what they should do. So maybe Mr. Trump doesn't want to destroy the Iranian nuclear program entirely. Yeah, maybe. So there's so much so many factors in this. So in my opinion, regime change is not inevitable. I think the possibility of regime change is remote because it takes a lot to do regime change. The only way to reliably carry a carry out regime change is either if you have lots of assets within the country who will carry out regime change for you which means you know mass protests and violence and whatnot which the Americans can't do or you puts on the ground which is super expensive and it it's it's very complicated and you need a full-scale invasion bigger than the invasion of Iraq in 2003. So that's why it's very difficult to see this happening. Uh okay. Arun says Qatar has closed its airspace and the UAE is also considering closing its airspace. So are we are we heading into a regional war? Let's take a look at the map. Let's take a look at the map. So we are talking about the Gulf region which is right essentially in our neighborhood next door. Um so okay I haven't seen this news. This is news that you're reporting which I'm hearing for the first time. Uh Qatar has closed its airspace while Qatar is right here. It's right essentially in the in the Persian Gulf, right? Not the Arabian Gulf. It's the Persian Gulf by the way. Uh so the the the war is heating up, right? And because the US has gotten involved in this matter, it is a nonzero probability that Iran may strike at US assets in the region in the wider region. The US has struck at Iran directly using B2 uh stealth bombers. So Iran may may choose to retaliate against the United States in the region and the US has multiple air bases and military bases and naval bases and whatnot in the region in the entire West Asia region across the region and many of these are hosted by nations in this region and which is why it makes sense you know for temp for these nations as a precautionary measure to at least temporarily close their airspace. So maybe that is the reason why they're doing it. And yeah, the possibility the the possibility is that we may be heading towards a regional war if Iran chooses to respond in some way. Rohan says, "Which country has the best nuclear submarine technology? France, Russia, or the US? Is the French and Russian nuclear subs are open to buy for India? Which one should we get and in what quantity?" Thank you. Okay. Which country is the best nuclear submarine capability? I think it would technology. I think it would be the US and then it would it would be Russia in my opinion. The Chinese also have nuclear subs. We also have nuclear subs. The French also have nuclear submarines. The French would have pretty good nuclear submarines, I'm sure. And uh overall the Japanese don't have nuclear submarines, but their submarines that their conventional submarines are outstanding. Even their decommissioned submarines are better than most nations, you know, operational submarines. That's how good the Japanese submarines are. The Shyu class submarine and so on. Uh the UK also has nuclear subs if I'm not mistaken. I suppose they do. Yeah. Um so it's not like we have a market in which we can go shopping and okay, I'll take one of this and two of that and one of this. That's not how it is. You you most nations won't offer you nuclear submarine technology or or or nuclear submarines to for for purchase. The Americans are now revisiting their AUK US submarine deal in which Australia was supposed to get a bunch of nuclear submarines from the US. Now it is being revisited revisited and reconsidered by the US. Yeah. Um India has in the past acquired a variety of not a variety of but like two or three nuclear nuclear submarines from the from the Russians. ALA class submarines which we have generally called INS Chakra. INS Chakra the first, the second and so on. Um, so these have always been given to India on lease, long lease like 10-year leases and all that. Um, I'm not sure if the French have opened have have offered India uh nuclear submarines to purchase. I'm not sure if they have. Uh, my what's my view on this? My view is that India should develop its own nuclear submarine technology iteratively. You build one boat, test it out, see how it performs, learn the lessons. Obviously, there's going to be drawbacks any time. Learn the lessons. Then build a new one which is better which which incorporates the lessons you learned. Then you test that. Then you find some shortcomings, some drawbacks, some positives and so on so forth. Then you build one more boat and incorporate the learnings in that. And over time, over the years, over the decades, you you end up with very very sophisticated nuclearpowered submarines. So we are we are in the process of doing that. So what we should do? We should have a parallel thing. We should develop our own submarines, nuclear submarines with miniaturaturized nuclear reactors and so on. And at the same time, we can also keep on leasing Russian submarines and cooperating with the Russians. That's what we should do. We should always be open to other offers. But other offers, we have to evaluate them very closely because other nations with other nations we don't have the kind of relationship that we have with the Russians. So, so yeah, that's the deal. Okay, now let's see some other questions. Uh, geopolitical dubet says, uh, the US has nukes in Turkey, even in Pakistan, but do they have nuclear weapons in Japan or South Korea? If not, why why aren't they in US nuclear umbrella? Because they are not NATO members. Um, okay. So, we know that the US has nuclear weapons deployed in Turkey. also in the Netherlands, also in Germany if I'm not mistaken and some other countries uh and Pakistan most likely hosts US nuclear weapons. Most likely those nukes are not Pakistani nukes. They are US nukes most likely. So that is aimed at us. Those are American nuclear weapons aimed at us from from our territory, our temporarily lost territory. The question is do the Americans have nukes in Japan and South Korea? As far as I know, I'm not sure. As far as I know, it's like there's a denial that the US has nukes in Japan. I think in the past, South Korea used to host nuclear weapons from the US if I'm not mistaken. Let's quickly fact check that. Did South Korea in the past host US nuclear weapons? Did South Korea host US nuclear weapons in the past? The US first deployed deployed nukes in South Korea 58. Numbers peaked in the late 1960s. And what about now? Withdrawal. The US withdrew nukes from South Korea in 1991 and so on. But the US continues to guarantee South Korea's nuclear security under its nuclear umbrella. And the same, I suppose, applies to Japan. Let's let's also fact check Japan. As far as I know, the US has never deployed nukes there. They've tested nukes there and Japan is very sensitive to U to nuclear weapons. That's why Oh, it appears they did. The US did store nuclear weapons on Japan in the past in Okinawa. Okay. So, when they held Okinawa, they had deployed nukes there, but then it was returned to Japanese control in 1972. Um and yeah, of course, Japan also has the protection of the alleged US nuclear umbrella. So both Japan and South Korea come under the protection of the US nuclear umbrella. I imagine Australia also does potentially New Zealand also. We have to look into it, you know, case by case. Uh so they these nations do have the benefit of the US nuclear umbrella and South Korea did have US nuclear weapons. Apparently, even Japan did as long as Okinawa was completely controlled by the US. Okay. Um, Ichino senpai senpai says, "Could you, okay, let's not speak in a Japanese accent. Could you please explain the part of your AI podcast with Omakan Sony where he said that the value of money will diminish in the future?" Well, that's one quote from a two and a half hour podcast that I don't remember right now. So, uh, what was the context? It was a long podcast. we discussed so many things uh the value of look I don't I don't recall off the top of of my head right now okay uh so I'll have to look into it and maybe I can get back to you if you can ask me during the next live stream the same question tomorrow for day after tomorrow for example which will again be a non-super chat liveream I'm telling you right now itself okay so you can ask me the same question that day Wednesday day after tomorrow and if I can catch a question I will answer it but right now I don't remember what what the context was so sorry. Okay. Uh Shira Aasti says, "Just as the US has helped Ukraine during the war, do you think Russia will do the same this time with Iran or have they stretched themselves too far?" That's a good question. That's a great question. Let's take a look at the map because the map generally answers a lot of the questions if we know how to use the map. So, let's take a look at the map. I'll tell you. Um so we have two situations. One is Ukraine, one is Iran. Uh one is Ukraine, Russia, one is uh Israel, Iran. So when it comes to Ukraine, you can see that it neighbors it it neighbors multiple NATO nations. One of the biggest is is Poland, obviously a very powerful nation. So it is in the neighborhood of multiple NATO nations. It has common borders with multiple NATO nations. And these NATO nations are extensions of the US. These are vasals of the US. And that's why it's very easy for the US to directly provide all kinds of support to Ukraine. Not just financial and diplomatic support, but also weapons, arms, ammunition, whatnot, because of this common shared borders that Ukraine has with other NATO nations. Okay. So that's how it's so easy for the US because they have completely vasalized Western Europe. That's why it's very easy for the US to uh supply Ukraine with various kinds of uh help. Now when it comes to Iran, okay, if Russia wants to help Iran in some way, how can they do it? Does Russia have any any vasals in the region? Well, you could say that you know the central Asian nations are kind of in the Russian sphere of influence but not entirely vasals. But then there is the Caspian Sea, the sea of Kashup allegedly the Caspian Sea. And if you look at the Caspian Sea, you can see there is a significant Russian uh coastline over there. So if you if you look here, you have this is Russian territory over here. for example, Russia, the the Republic of Dagistan within Russia. So, this is all part of Russia. And how far is it from Iran? Let's just do a pretty quick look into it very quickly. It's about 500 600 km away from Iran. So using the Caspian Sea, Russia could resupply Iran if they want to, if they determine that it makes sense for them to do so. But they don't have a common border with Iran, but they're not very far from Iranian territory and they can, you know, use maritime means to uh supply help to Iran. The question is, will Russia choose to do do so if if push comes to shove and that remains to be seen. Thus far, Mr. Putin is making very diplomatic statements that you know in this in this war we have a lot of Russian speaking Iranian Russian speaking Israelis and we would not like to get involved in this matter or something. That's the kind of hint that he is giving but words are okay. At the end of the day it's actions that count and we'll see about that. Anonymous scientist says there's news that India is modifying the Agni 5 to make it a surfaceto-surface bunker buster missile. What are my thoughts? I'm glad we should we should modify all missiles to do all kind of stuff. Um what I had read briefly like today or yesterday is that India is modifying the AGNI AGN5 missile to to and it's modifying the missile such that it can carry conventional payloads. So the 5 is a strategic missile and its purpose thus far has been to potentially uh deliver nuclear warheads to wherever they need to be delivered. U but now we are modifying it to carry conventional warheads also if required. So conventional explosives non- nuclear explosives and possibly if you can make it a surfaceto-surface it's always it's already a surfaceto-surface missile. Bunker buster I'm not sure. Bunker buster bombs are a whole different category of bombs. You don't use something like the AGN to do that. You generally have an overflight with a strategic bomber and you do that. But I don't know. So I haven't seen the bunker bunker buster news, but I know that the missile is being uh modified somewhat, which should not take too long to do. Okay. Um Okay, let's see this. Duh je says uh how do you see India US relations going on they're talking about imposing 500 tariffs in Russia India China Pakistan has become a US was from the Chinese was the US is a bigger short-term threat now not short-term I wouldn't say the US is a short-term threat Pakistan is a short-term threat long-term threats yeah see because India is growing right as India's economy is growing there's nobody that can stop that from happening unless you take very super drastic measures. So India's economy is keep going to keep on growing. It's projected to keep on growing at 6% 7% plus whatever percentage plus every year for the foreseeable future which means that by a 2040 horizon India will be a 105 trillion economy possibly possibly which means India could be on on on the verge of eventually becoming the next China. When that happens your big adversary is not Pakistan it's the US because the US doesn't want new rivals to emerge. So how do I see India US relations there in in a tense period? Mr. Trump has completely upended everything. He's become super transactional. He has become super friendly towards Pakistan because he's personally invested in Pakistan. Right? He seeks to extract resources um um exploit resources like oil and gas and rare earths. He's also investing in the in the Pakistani um cryptocurrency sector and so on. and he has good friends in the Pakistani military. Mr. Aim Moner, Mr. whoever else, Shabbaz Sharif is also. So Pakistan is a full-scale US patal and Pakistan also hosts US nuclear weapons. So yeah, there is the deal. So India US relations are going through a tense period, not a very friendly period. Trump is making false claims of immediating in the India Pakistan thing which are completely unfounded, completely false and he's threatening all kinds of tariffs on India and uh and he's being very pro Pakistan and so on. So there's trade negotiations going on right now between India and the US and the US seems to be adopting maximalist measures and making maximalist demands. They want us to swallow their agricultural products which we don't want because their agriculture and dairy products are contaminated with GMOs and whatnot. It's what makes Americans sick and obese and we don't want that garbage coming to India. But they want us to to to accept all that. So there are fundamental issues uh between the two nations and that is something that needs that will need to be resolved in some manner and obviously we will not compromise the health of our citizens by by importing American farm produce and dairy products and so on. Okay. Yeah. Let's see. Um uh Janvi says, "Don't you think Britain should be divided into into two countries? One Christian majority and another Islamic Britain." Well, I I fully support this proposal. It is a valid and just proposal. uh there is a significant Islamic uh population in Britain and uh I suppose they they are not happy with with their Christian neighbors and they would like a different form of government and so what whatever it is that goes on with them. So I am fully in support of of partitioning the the the UK into at least two countries so that the rights of the Islamic citizens are are protected and they get what they need. So I completely agree with uh John Vij over here totally. Um, Malik say is saying that why is no one taking unmanned naval submarines seriously? Well, unmanned undersea vehicles or unmanned naval submarines, whatever you want to call them, they they have a lot of potential, a lot of technological challenges. So essentially the thing is this when you have a vehicle that operates underwater it's very hard to control it remotely. How do you control it remotely? It's deep underwater. Uh electromagnetic signals don't reach there very easily and those can be intercepted which is why there is minimal communication between surface and and submarines right because those signals can be intercepted. Um and if you have a vehicle without humans then how does it take decisions make decisions and so on. So there are all kinds of issues not uncsurmountable issues but significant technological uh issues and barriers when it comes to unmanned naval submarines but there are many nations that are working on this including us including India but those things we typically don't speak about we don't shout about this from the top of the roof from the rooftops because this is all sensitive technology and the nations that lead in this will end up leading the world in variety of ways right so that's Okay, says Pakistan shows unconditional support to Iran yet it is growing ties with the US. Pakistan also nominated Trump for peace prize, Nobel Peace Prize and Trump is currently bombing Iran. Can you please explain the dynamics of the relation? What's that to explain? It's very simple. If you if you have been a viewer of this channel, you will understand that there is a fundamental difference between words and actions. the difference between words and actions. I can say whatever I want. I can say all kinds of nice things but if I'm a nasty person, I will then do something else. So Pakistan is the serum nation. They will your the the so-called unconditional support sir that you are mentioning. Please realize okay ve that this unconditional support is verbal support. talk talk talk talk talk. But when it comes to actual support, they are supporting Israel in the US. Pakistan hosts US nuclear weapons on its soil. It has given access to the US to various air bases and whatnot. We saw in the past few days American aircraft flying over Pakistani territory and monitoring Iran. So this is all in support of Israel, right? And Pakistan claims it doesn't even recognize the state of Israel but it is supporting Israel's war against Iran. So Pakistan is that sort of nation. It's a mercenary nation. They claim to be the nation of Islam Pakistan or whatever. But they are working they're supporting Israel which a lot of the Islamic world may possibly consider to be an enemy of Islam. Possibly possibly okay I'm not I'm not saying that a lot of people are here making such claims. So if Pakistan is one of the great leaders of Islam, well, what are they doing here? So that is typical of Pakistan. They'll say one thing, do another, they are a mercenary nation. They're a nation for hire. They're a nation for sale. So no surprise over here. Okay. Mclivven says if Ukraine, Iran and Pakistan are hearland entry points with Russia handling Ukraine in India handling Pakistan, why has the RAI abandoned Iran? Why isn't China showing support to Iran? Let's take a look at the map. And it's a complex question that Mlean has asked us. Take let's take a look at the map. And there seem to be some assumptions behind this, but let's let's take a look at all of that. So according to Mackander's thesis, the world island thesis and the heartland rimland thesis, u the heartland of the world is the Eurasian heartland which is central Asia. It's u much of China, Mongolia, much of Siberia, Russia, all of that. That's the heartland. And according to Mckender, whoever controls the heartland will control the world island. And uh the rimland nations according to Mackander are not destined to rule the world. It's only those who control the heartland who will rule the world eventually. And according to Mackander, Ukraine is the entry point to the heartland from the west, right? Because it's the dividing zone between Western Europe and Russia essentially. So according to Mackender, according to this thesis, Ukraine is an entry point. uh Iran and Pakistan are actually rimland nations and they're not quite heartland entry points. Of course, if you if the US manages to conquer Iran and install a puppet regime in Iran, then Russia isn't that far far away and Russia is obviously a heartland nation. Um now Russia in Iran, Russia is handling Ukraine. I'm not sure how Russia is handling Ukraine. Russia is currently in a proxy war with NATO in Ukraine. It's not handling Ukraine and India is not handling Pakistan. India is is being saddled with this terrorist nation which is a vasal of the west which which is the vasal of the US. Now you're asking why has RA abandoned Iran? How has anybody abandoned Iran? None of the R nations have any alliance with Iran. There is no alliance treaty between either Russia or China or India either jointly or collectively or or or singularly with Iran. So how can anybody make the claim that Iran has been abandoned? You abandon somebody only if you have a treaty and then you don't abide by the treaty of of uh mutual protection or whatever. There is no such treaty. Of course, Iran, you could say, is is kind of an ally of of Russia and China, and both nations have an interest in in ensuring that Iran continues to exist. We also have an interest in in ensuring that Iran continues to exist. But when the US, let's say, wants to destroy Iran, for example, hypothetically, it has attacked Iran, hasn't it? So, when the US is involved directly, does it make sense for India to get involved in the matter? Just realistically and practically India should stay out of it. Now China if you look at the map it is so far away from Iran. What can China do? Russia is the closest to Iran. So if push push comes to shove maybe Russia may consider possibly uh getting involved in some way. But it is completely uh not correct to say that RI has abandoned Iran. Iran was never an ally. You abandon somebody somebody only if you have an alliance treaty and then you don't ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab ab abideide by it and obviously the main driving factor is how powerful the US is. People don't realize how powerful the US is. I have been saying this from the rooftops the US has never been as powerful as it is today but people don't seem to realize this. Maybe you you're watching your favorite YouTuber or favorite news readader on on your favorite news channel who are saying the US is declining. What utter nonsense. The US has never been as powerful as it is today. Right. Okay. Now, a history question by anonymous scientist. Which civilization or culture succeeded the Indus Valley culture civilization? Marxist historians say there's a gap or blah blah blah blah blah. And this blah blah blah explains Arian picnic tourism theory. Marxist historians say there's a gap or cultural discontinuity. And this gap or discontinuity explains the Arian picnic tourism theory. Now show me the gap. I don't care what somebody said. Show me the gap. There is clear cultural continuity archaeological record of clear cultural continuity that goes back 9 and a half 10,000 years. And the IVC, the Indus Valley civilization so-called was not some separate civilization that that disappeared. It was one period of our history and it never went away. It never went away. It still exists. We are the continuation. the cultural and civilizational elements that you see in the archaeological record during the so-called indust valley times Harapan times whatever Sarasindu times the same cultural religious ar and and civilizational traits are even seen today so it's completely wrong it's completely false what these Marxist historians have been claiming okay Um right okay let's uh uh Yashwan says is the US deep state allowing Trump family business deal so as to have skin in Balojasthan and later later leverage this as justification for military operations when the rebels fight against this so Trump clearly has business deals in Pakistan we all know that I've I've shown that very clearly in in great detail haven't I can look you could fact check everything I've said. You can fact check as much as you want. Nobody will be able to deny it what I have revealed. Right? Um so the Trump family has this extensive business dealings in Pakistan. Why is it being allowed? Clearly there are conflicts of interest. The US president is not supposed to be directly involved in such matters. So why is it being allowed is the question you are asking. If a deep state exists, they would like definitely Trump to have skin in the game in Balojasthan. Um see when it comes to the US Pakistan, it's not about Balojasthan. It's about Pakistan. Trump doesn't give two two hoots about Baluchistan. Trump doesn't care. He's there to exploit the land, oil, gas, rare earths, and also crypto stuff because he's making a pivot towards cryptocurrency from being a real estate guy. Um, so it's about the the nation of Pakistan is super important to the US because it it serves so many purposes. It it it's a it's a gateway to Afghanistan. It's a gateway to Central Asia. It can be used to keep an eye on Persia on it. It can be used to continuously bleed India via various terroristic activities. It can even be used to infiltrate China for some in some ways and be a conduit towards China. So Pakistan is very important and why not have a US president who personally invested in Pakistan? Well, then he'll be it'll be sufficient motivation for him to to promote the interests of Pakistan like for example preventing India from destroying Pakistan completely in May. So that's the reason why. Okay. Um okay Dick Dick Chickmaster says longtime viewer. Well thank you so much. Thank you so much for being a longtime viewer. I appreciate that. So the question is Iran having nukes would be be bad for us Indians too. Kam compared the life of Muslims in India to Gaza. Yet Iran is geopolitically important for us. How to view? So I have said this in the past. I'm saying it. I'll say it today also. I would not want Iran to have nukes. We already have one nuclear headache in the region which is Pakistan. We don't want another one because you know like I've the analogy I give is that of a cat right let's say you have a cat nice little house cat a standard standard issue cat big this big right and you know how cats behave they're very nice and cute and they were sharp claws and teeth but they're really nice they meow now imagine something happens to your cat and your cat becomes four times as big so from this size the cat goes to that size so the cat becomes the size of a cheetah or a leopard do you think your cat will behave the same way as as when he was that that size. No, the behavior will change according to the size. Your same cat with the same personality the moment he goes from this size to the cheetah size or leopard size will acquire a new personality commensurate with his new status and new size and new strength. Right? Similarly, a nation which doesn't have nuclear weapons, if you give nuclear weapons to it, it will I promise you act very differently. And we don't want that. But listen, we need Iran to continue to exist in the same way it is right now in the same shape and form. Otherwise, the entire region falls to the US and every nation becomes anti-India. So yeah, that's how we that's how we view it. Rams is breaking a piece of news over here. Iran has fired six missiles to bases in Qatar. Well, those are not Qatari bases, I imagine. I haven't seen the news thus far. I'll see it after this is over this live stream. But this must be at US I I imagine this would be at US bases in Qatar which would be Wow. Escalation escalation. Okay. Uh okay. Kamill Kamill says Kamill Kamal I don't know Kamill says China is going to sell 40 J35 fighter planes to Pakistan. Is our 4.5 generation Rafal fighter plane good enough to go head-to-head with them. Shouldn't we try to pump as much money, efforts, and all resources to get our AMCA in two years? Well, we are faced with the situation now. I am not sure how good or not so good the J35 may or may not be. We know it's it's a fifth generation fighter plane and we have to assume it's as at least as good as F-35. The F-35 I've always said is a flying trash can but it's still a fifth generation fighter plane and uh yeah so if the Chinese sell 40 J35s to Pakistan well I think the Chinese need to do some thinking now right especially in in the light of the Iran situation if Iran potentially falls if it I think there's a small chance of that happening but if it does then China loses access to a tremendous supply ongoing supply of cheap energy and also an allied nation at least quasa allied nation. Do they still want to be enemies with India all the time? Does it make sense for for China to continue to be our enemy and support a nation that is a US vasal? I mean if China sells the AJ35 to Pakistan, the first thing that will happen is is that US technicians will take it apart will take one of those or two of those and take it apart and get all the Chinese secrets. Do the Chinese want that? So yeah, but let's let's assume they do for example for what for for whatever reason. Then the question is is the Rafal good enough to go headto-head with that? Well, I would assume that if the J35 is a decent fifth generation fighter plane, then the Rafal is not good enough. Okay, then the question you ask is should we not try and pump in money, efforts, all that to get the AMCA in two years? Impossible. Fighter plane development timelines are very long. It's going to take at least 5 years. I I hear that there's going to be a prototype in the next year or two AMCA and maybe it'll start flying in the next 2 3 years perhaps. So we can try and make that happen as fast as possible and maybe shorten the the iteration cycle or whatever but but we have to assume that it takes the time it takes to have a production worthy fighter plane. So what generally happens is that you have a set of blueprints and you base the blueprints on the lessons you've learned from the previous aircraft you you designed and flew which is the so we've learned a lot from the project. We take all those learnings we make a blueprint for the AMCA then you cut the metal and do all that stuff and you create a prototype and you test it out. That's your prototype number one. Then obviously it will have some flaws and deficiencies. Though you make a second prototype and this time you put engines and you make it fly and hopefully it works fine. But once again you see the flight characteristics and whatnot. Then once again you modify it and improve it and have a third prototype and around that time third fourth fourth prototype it's reasonably flying worthy. So that's your first production production version of the aircraft. This whole process will take at least 5 seven years. That's how it goes. Uh but I'm sure it's possible to shorten the time period instead of 7 to 10 years. Make make it five years by which we have uh uh product production versions and induction into the uh into the air force. So listen, it's it's no one's fault but ours that we are in the situation. We've been delaying our things so long so long so long. So yeah, we need to now get going on a war footing. And the good thing is that the go government of India acts only when there are massive threats and pressure from outside. So I think here we are now it's going to act. So hopefully things uh change. Yash says India might find a Guyana size sized India might find Guyana sized oil fields in the underman sea worth more than 20 trillion USD. If that happens, what do you think will be? What do you think? Will we be self-reliable, self-reliant in energy requirements? If that happens, we will be 100% self-reliant in energy. We'll also be a net exporter of energy. The question is, have we found this? I think Mr. Harp Singh Puri made a statement recently that we may be on the verge of discovering something like that. Well, being on the verge of something is great. But it's not actually discovering it yet. So let's wait and watch. I think if you look at the Indian Ocean region, the eastern coast, the western coast of India, I think there'll be tremendous quantities of oil and gas there. We simply have not bothered to look. We have simply been lazy. It's only this government finally which is waking up now and looking into these things. I think we we may find way more what than what the Arabs have. If we just look properly not just offshore but also onshore. So let's say sometime in the next few months we make the announcement that we have discovered ginormous oil field worth more than 20 20 trillion USD. It will be enough to take care of our energy self-sufficiency and also become make India net exporter of energy. It will also mean that we will have to significantly militarize the under demand region, put up air bases, naval bases there to safeguard our assets and so on. So yeah, um Flick edits says, "How might a prolonged Iran Israel confrontation affect global oil markets and trade corridors, especially in light of alternative routes like the India Middle East Europe Economic Corridor?" Okay. So, here's let's let's go to the map and put that on the screen. So, let's say that Iran is being hit very badly. So, what Iran could do in retaliation is close down this choke point. Okay, this is a very very narrow choke point. It's called the straight of Hormuz. Just 100 kilometers. And Iran has significant naval facilities here. They can lay mines in the ocean which could destroy ships which pass through the region and so on and this could completely block the state of Hormos. And why is it very important? Because a significant quantity of the world's energy flows through the state of Hormos. Uh it comes from the oil fields in Kuwait, in Saudi Arabia, in Iran, in Iraq, etc. And it all flows, it all has to flow through the state of Hormos through oil tankers. Okay? So if Iran shuts that down then oil prices will shoot up and you will have a global crisis and this could create a global recession. Okay. So that is something that could disrupt the the affect the over the global oil markets and it's yeah then then obviously the prices of everything go up. Now the India Middle East Europe economic corridor is not an alternative route. How is it an alternative route? That's a totally different thing. It's not a corridor through which oil passes. It's not even been constructed. It's still on paper. Uh so the IMAC is just on paper. It's supposed to connect let's say western India for example, Mumbai uh through Saudi Arabia all the way into through Jordan and into Israel and from there into through Cyprus and then into Greece bypassing Turkey. That's the plan. It's on paper. Nothing has happened thus far. So yeah. So if if the straight of hormos is choked up by Iran and if the Houthis in Yemen etc they also become active then even the the Red Sea the straight of Bab al- Mandib over here even that could be closed down which would mean that much of the shipping and all that will have to pass through pass by the Cape of Good Hope which will significantly increase costs beyond what we already have. So these are the scenarios that could you know play out. Okay. Bhavy says is is this a live stream? Okay. Somebody please help him out and explain if it is a live stream or not. Um Sam the gamer says why do you think our navy do no do you think our navy navy is significantly behind in submarines just like the lack of squadrons in the air force? Our Navy is significantly behind in in submarines. Okay, let's let's do a comparison. See, Joseph Stalin said that quantity has a quality of its own. Forget about quality. First work on quantity. How many North submarines uh how many submarine submarines does North Korea have? See this 64 to 86 submarines. Okay, North Korea. Now, let's say Japan. Japan has 22. Okay, how many does the US have? The US only has nuclear submarines. The US has 70 submarines. How about France? Nine submarines. It's a small nation. What about the UK? UK also nine. But what about China? Uh 61 submarines. Okay, let's also see Pakistan eight subordinates. So 61 for China, eight for Pakistan, about 80 for North Korea. Let's see India, we have like 15 or 16, I would say 17 conventional three nuclear power. I think for a nation of our enormous coastline having 20 submarines is a joke. We should have way more. We should have close to 100 submarines or at least 50 submarines, right? North Korea has almost 80 submarines. So, we are significantly behind in submarines and we have been we have been napping essentially. Okay. Um let us see. Okay. Arian Musk says a lot of nations want to beat down US hedgemony even if they are US allies and today it's evident that the US is not united anymore there's a lot of major differences are there what are their views okay what's the question how many questions do we have here a lot of nations want to beat down the US and Germany even if they are US allies no they're not allies they're vasals but they're called allies in a in polite language okay for example France France is a member of the EU. France is a member of NATO because of which it has lost sovereignty. It doesn't have full sovereignty over over its own well its own resources, its assets. It's not a fully sovereign nation. France would love nothing more than to be 100% fully sovereign once again. So yeah, that will only happen if US hedgemony declines. The the UK is a complete vasal. They don't even have any aspiration of of being free. Italy is another and so on, Japan, South Korea and so on, Australia, New Zealand. All Australia would love nothing more than to have even more US sovereignty and hedgemony, but whatever. So there's lot of nations that would love to be free again, right? So that's true. No question. And the other question is the US is not so united anymore. Lots of differences, major differences. That's domestic differences. The US society is in major decline, qualitative decline. US hard power has never been as high as it is now. The US has never been more powerful than it is today. But you can see visible decline in the quality of the society. Moral decay, societal decay, all of that. Lots of differences in US society. People can't agree with each other. Even if they disagree in the past, they could be they could be social with each other. They could be polite and civilized. Today, they can't. And so on all kinds of issues in in US society. So overall the quality of US society is declining. There is moral decay and and so much more in the US society. All the institutions seem to be decaying. The education system is is is terrible now compared to what it was in the 1950s and60s and so on and so forth. So overall yeah that's that's the way it is. Okay. Um uh Anand Chanduk says, "How to make a submarine at home?" Any easy technology to do that? You can also ask me how to make a nuclear weapon at home, right? How do you make a submarine at home? Look, that's not really very classified technology. The first submarines were made more than 100 years ago. During the first world war, the Germans had these unus boots, u boots, lots of them, and so on. So it's not that difficult how to make I'm sure you can see you can find blueprints and whatnot online of of older submarines. It's not very classified technology. It's just that it's very difficult for one person to do it. Even if you build one at your home, do you have a river or a sea in your home? Yeah. So um Ujiha says Iran strikes the Qatar air bases. Somebody tell us sir please. Well you have told the sir yourself my friend. Okay so I've been hearing this. Iran is has struck at Qatar bases. Let me see news. Shall I see news? Uh let's let's see it together shall we? I just opened Google news. Um um um so Iran Israel okay that is an old news that is old news Iran blah blah blah. What happened what we know so far five let's look at Qatar let's look at Qatar what's going on UK US Qatar shuts airspace Iran retaliates fires missiles at US bases in Qatar. Okay. Okay. Several explosions heard over DHA. My god, it's going to destroy people's businesses. Okay. Iran retaliates. Let's take a look at this one. Let's quickly uh read the news in real time by Al Monitor. Iran retaliates, fires missiles at US bases in Qatar and in Iraq. Okay, this is over Natana. That's different. Um, Iran has launched at least 10 missiles towards US bases in Qatar, one towards Iraq. Um, Qatar hosts the largest US military presence in the Middle East with more than 8,000 troops stationed in Alud air base outside DHA. Explosions were heard over KQataril DHA. According to AFP, others uh according to Iran, Iran's missile operation against US bases in Qatar and Iraq has begun under the name blessings of victory and so on. Okay. So this is all breaking news. This is happening as we speak. So as we can see there is escalation. Well, what do you expect? Um yeah. So okay, I'll keep an eye on this for sure. I will. Har Chan Haran Google says does mass producing multiple does mass producing multi-roll fighters compensate for not having different kinds of aircraft bombers and surveillance aircraft? To some extent it can. So let's say you don't have heavy strategic bombers but you have uh multi-roll fighters. So you can use multiroll fighters for bombing missions for sure can't you? Right? You can. So let's say you produce a thousand multi-roll fighters. Well that can certainly offset the requirement for for dedicated bombing aircraft. So yeah it it can work. Quantity has a quality of its own. Um, okay. Some of the questions before we end. Today is going to be a 60-minute live stream. We're going to do more. So, yeah. RDRA says, Rudra asked a very good question. Look at this. How many points will India and China gain in Chava index if they become energy independent? Uh, that is something I have to calculate. But India's energy security well it's it's a major component of uh of your hard power and that's the the fact that India is not energy energetically self-sufficient it's a significant drawback for India and it decreases India's score so right now India's score is about 4.91 it may rise up to five 5.5 maybe six maybe even beyond that I'll have to see good question it will certainly make a significant difference for sure Okay, Mahesa says, "What is I I saw this question one time before also. Um, what is so special about the Great Wall of China?" Um, the Great Wall of China. Well, I'll tell you what's special about it. Okay, let's let's take a look at the map. It actually the special thing is that it tells you what China really is and where China's limits are, boundaries are great wall of China. What am I writing? Wina, China. Great. Greta, Great Wall of China. It's giving me one single location. Shang Joo. Okay, let's look. Let's look somewhere else. Let's let's uh let's look here. Give me a second. Um here. Great wall of Shin Lashin. Okay, let's look at images. Okay, let's look at map. So now this tells us look where was the great great wall of China? It was here. So that tells you where the limits of China are. Okay. Um these these are the original boundaries of China. China actually has has taken over a lot of territory that doesn't belong to it. So that's one of the most important indications from the Great Wall of China. And they regarded everybody beyond the Great Wall as barbarians. So it's an indicator of what China's historical boundaries were, what its historical uh extent was and other stuff whatever else could be special or not I don't know. Okay. Uh geopolitical says Ramayan has many versions. The Thai king is still called the king Rama the 10th or 11th or whatever. Albania Prime Minister Adi Rama but why the Mahabharat has not virgin like Ramayan and not popular in other countries like Ramayana. Uh Albania has nothing to do with India by the way as far as I understand. I may be wrong but as far as I know there's no connection. Why doesn't the Mahabharat have so many other versions? I'm not sure I can answer the question. I'm not sure. I'm not aware. Um the Mahabharat was more like a civil war, wasn't it, for us? Um because it is us fighting us. The Raman was a different story. It was um yeah listen I don't I don't have the answer right now. I'm not sure. I have not looked into this question but maybe the Raman was way more popular than than the Mahabharat in the past possibly. I'm not sure. Um okay let's take a few more questions before we end. Um, Priyanu says the characteristics of a nation or an empire, these characteristics depend on the founder. Who should we call the founder of modern independent India? I have no idea who's the founder. I'll tell you who's the founder. The British are the founders of modern independent India. It was a transfer of power from the British to their handpicked minions. And the characteristics of modern day India are pretty mediocre, aren't they? Despite all the potential, despite having the greatest potential of any civilization or any nation in the world, we are currently a nation of great mediocrity. So those are the characteristics of our so-called founders. But I'll tell you what, we are a civilization state. We were not founded in 1947. It was just a transition period. So I don't know who or so-called we don't have any founding fathers as such or and if somebody has to be given the title of founding fathers I would give it to the great historic historical Greeks Lord Ram Lord emperor Barat Lord Ram Lord Krishna and so many of our great emperors in the past and even they you can't say founded India I mean did Chandra Gupta Moria and uh Vishnu Gupta Tanaki found India bat no they did not they simply continued something that was much older than them. Kaneshka, no. The Gupta emperors, no. The Chola, the great Cholas, no. They all continued something that already existed. So I think the founder of I don't modern independ independ independent India is a passing phase. We should remain independent but we should become great again. This is a period of mediocrity and I have no I can't think of a single person who deserves the title of the founder of India. The only real founder of India I would say is is King Bat back in the day. Okay. Amisha says some people are saying that that Israel is now the US the US's master after the US dropped bombs in Iran. Is this true in the current situation? It looks incliningly more likely that it's the case, doesn't it? Looks increasingly like likely increasingly more likely that that's the case. the US will do whatever it takes to to to support Israel and to advance Israeli interests. Trump used to to shout from the rooftops that I'm the only US president in I don't know how many decades who did not start a new war and I did not drop bombs on anyone and so on used to say well look what he's doing right now. Yeah. The question is why? Well, clearly he there is some influence in the US that Israel has. Not some influence, very significant influence if you can get the US president to drop bombs for you on your adversaries. And why is it the case? Um, I'm not going there. Okay. All right. Um, let's see. Um okay Yashprit says is a military alliance just a formal agreement or can the same benefits be enjoyed without alliance also should India build an alliance as the US there's a risk of US sanctions a military alliance is indeed a formal agreement it's a treaty and alliance is generally based on a treaty that two nations sign typically it's a mutual defense treaty that if I am attacked you will come to my aid. If you are attacked, I'll come to your aid. And you formalize that by signing a treaty. That makes it a formal alliance, a military alliance. Then there are other kinds of alliances like economic alliances and so on, but we're talking about military alliances here. So, it's usually a mutual self-defense agreement. Can the same benefits be enjoyed without alliances? I suppose you can you can have an informal alliance, I suppose, without actually signing a treaty. That can happen. Um for example, India and Bhutan don't have s such a treaty but I'm sure that if Bhutan faces any trouble, India will come to its defense so on uh should India build an alliance is there a risk of US sanctions. The whole world faces the risk of US sanctions. So I suppose see you can't you can't counter economic sanctions through a military alliance especially not against the US. So it doesn't work that way. Namin Kumar asks is Pakistan really a nuclear nation or is is it just carrying US nuclear weapons with only US officials having operational power? I think it is very likely that Pakistan is is hosting US nuclear warheads and it is very likely that it is US officials who have the the actual operational power over those warheads. I am I I have come to the conclusion that Pakistan has never been capable of building a nuclear bomb on its own. it simply did not doesn't have the mental bandwidth bandwidth to to do to do that despite being the same DNA as us because other things apart from DNA also matter. So I don't think Pakistan ever developed nuclear weapons. I think it's US nuclear weapons aimed at India hosted in Pakistan soil which tells you what kind of relationship the the US has and what kind of attitude the US has towards India. Okay Shaspat sir thank you so much for becoming a member. I never ask anybody for being becoming a member but people still do. So thank you so much. I genuinely really very humbly appreciate the support. Um okay. A says operation Sundur 2. Israel will go after Pakistan. Israel is not ever going after Pakistan. Pakistan is a US US ally and by that it's also a de facto Israeli ally. Okay. So, Israel is not going after Pakistan. Some Israeli politicians may have said some things in the past. Please, my viewers, if you learn only one thing from watching me, please learn that words and actions are separate things. Words are can be meaningless. Words can be empty. Words are cheap. Words cost nothing. Anybody can say anything and tomorrow says do something else. Israel is not going after Pakistan. McLevin says, "What will be the impact on the Armenia war now as it's proven our system is better than Israel? Both is Israel and Turkey are against Armenia and now we are shipping a second batch of Akash missiles." Well, the impact is that it should hopefully bolster Armenia's defenses against Azarbaijan. Isn't it very interesting? Really interesting. Isn't it noteworthy that India supports Armenia and Israel supports Armenia's enemy Azarbaijan? So Israel and Turkey support Armenia's enemy and India supports Armenia. So we are on opposite sides with Israel. We are Israel is our adversary here and Israel is standing with Turkey in this. So the impact is that if we supply more weapons to Armenia, the chances of of of u of defending themselves increase that's the impact. Amisha says if the universe is 20 billion years old and what hap what existed be before that very mysterious the universe to the best that to to the best of our understanding the universe is about 13.8 billion years old. What existed before that? Well, that that's something we can't really answer because we don't have data of what came what is what may potentially be beyond outside the universe. Um there are multiple theories there there's there's a theory of a cyclical universe um um in which universe um conformal cyclical cosmology Roger Penrose and his theory and there is the big bounce model that the universe will expand then it'll contract again and then bounce off again that sort of thing. So there are multiple theories out there but we don't have any evidence that goes in favor of any of these theories. We can't say for sure. So this is all in the realm of theory right now. There is no evidence but we have multiple theories. Okay. Um maybe we can take maybe one or two questions more. Uh Mobile Menace says can I get a shout out from my channel Kishnamri? I make content on cool cool weapons and creatures in our script scriptures. Thank you. Well, here we have it. Krishna Mria shout out. Um, Anchul says, "How did the solar system form? Were the planets always in the same positions or their positions shifted from time to time? Why are Uranus and Neptune at the age edge of the solar system?" The solar system, how did it form? It formed about 4.5 billion years ago. The universe is about 13.8 billion years old. Okay? And the solar system formed about 4.5 billion years ago. It formed from a gigantic cloud of dust and gas. Where did that cloud come from? That cloud came from the death of a previous star. So the sun is a reincarnated star. It's in its possibly third reincarnation possibly. So at least second reincarnation. And so from that big cloud of gas and dust, you had the formation of a protostellar disc. If you want to know know what that looks like, let me show you. It's a flat disc, swirling disc of gas. Pro protostellar not protostellar you can also call it a pro protolanetary disc. So this is what it looks like right this is an actual one photographed and this is what it looks like theoretically and eventually because of the pressure and so on the star ignites at the center and uh and then clumps form around it which give rise to the planets and that's how it goes. So that is how uh the solar system was formed. The planets were not necessarily in the same positions. Okay. The the positions shift over time and they will shift they will shift on over time in the future also. Some planets may actually get ejected out of out of the solar system because of the complex dynamics gravitational dynamics and Uranus and Neptune are the edge of the solar system because of the way the whole solar system evolved. The earth in the past about 4 something billion years ago suffered a massive impact impact by another ancient planet which is now part of the earth and the consequence of the impact most likely was that there was a big amount of material that was ejected which formed a ring initially around the earth and that coalesed later into a glob into a blob which became the moon and so on. A says Iran is part of bricks. Does that not count as an alliance? BRICS is an economic coalition. It's not an alliance and there is no military dimension to bricks. So that's your answer. Okay, I think we're going to end this session over here. Okay, let's take one last question by our good old friend Shri Ramachandra. Not old but good friend. So the question is how does any country decide to buy which weapons? How does a country decide which weapons to buy? They have defense experts. But do TV, news, propaganda or nar narratives effect affect the kind of weapons you buy. See, ideally you probably produce your own weapons. But let's say you don't have the technology and you're not good at that and all. Then you have to buy weapons. So how do you decide what to buy? You decide what weapons to buy based on your threat assessment. It depends on whether you're a maritime nation, you're a landlocked nation or a nation with a coast. And then it depends on what kind of neighbors do you have. They are friendly. Are they friendly? Are they adversarial? Are they genocidal? All those factors and your geography in all these different parameters they cons they they create they create your overall big picture threat perception and based on the threat perception your military tells you that these are the weapons we need to successfully defend the country and and and u and take care of the national interest. So based on that you decide that okay I need to have an air force that is that has these capabilities. Maybe I just need uh interceptors or maybe I need longrange bombers or maybe I need whatever. So it depends on that. How many helicopters I need? In case I do if I if I need a navy, how many ships do I need to defend my my my coastline? How many submarines do I need? Do I have expansionist ambitions? In that case, do I may need a different kind of navy and air force and infantry and number of tanks and whatnot. So that's how we do it. And um so nations have military personnel, defense experts. Uh does TV news propaganda narrative affect it? Only if it's a corrupt and and and not very robust nation. Otherwise TV news propaganda and all that. If it is antinational, if it is counterproductive to the nation, it should be nipped at the bud. But if it's a democratic nation, everything affects it. All right. All right. Okay. So I think with that we're going to end today's live stream. So thank you so much everybody for Okay, now what is this? One second. Uh yeah. Okay. So we're going to end this live stream over here. Thank you so much everybody for all your questions and I will see you in the next live stream and in the next episode of Jee Strategy which will come before the next live stream. Thank you so much. Keep asking questions. I enjoyed this one today. Good questions. So take care. Keep asking questions. Keep learning. Keep raising your standards and I'll see you next time. Thank you so much.