Heat. Heat. Heat. Hey, Heat. Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome back to the Ask a Bidget show. Today we are doing episode 330 and I'm going to take questions from the comments. Questions you have asked in the comments about geopolitics and history. Before we get into that, let me see who is who is there on the live chat. Before I do that, uh just a brief announcement. The next live stream episode 331 will not happen tomorrow. It will happen on Monday 8:00 p.m. India time. Tomorrow as some of you may know there is an India Pakistan cricket match around the same time and if I do the live stream at that time I suppose very few people will watch. I have tried in the past it doesn't work so so I'm moving I have moved it to Monday 8:00 p.m. Okay. Uh let's see who is there on the live chat. Akshai Bharadwaj Ice Gulim is very excited. Good to see you. High schoolm 1055 chess pro 11 anuman mahapatra dana priya football baktitra clearly someone with that name. Okay. Aravsha, Zubon, Eizen, Geopolitical Dubai from Indor, Gajapat from Odisha, SKR7733. Uh, Gora TV, The Strummer A1 1989, Reika Humbl Ju. Uh, who else? Admi, Rishuk, Talugdar, Hulor, Kiki, Kiki, Susant, good morning to you. Good morning. Uh, G TV once again. Real Vadimir Putin, Ram Ram G. Um Tadas Namaste Prasad Abdalal. Okay. Yeah. Hi McLean 69. Good evening. Uh Kahan hello. U who else? Who else are you saying? Pranam Sergi. Panam to you. Dic Shrian. Namaste. Ashish Chabra. Namaste G. Brave robot. Meow in in Devanagri. Okay. Uh Nagarand Shana is here from Hyderabad. Good evening sir. Anandpai namaskar. John M. Funk namaste. Bam. Edits 12:47. Good to see you, sir. Good to see you. Anime Paratia's daughter says, "Hello." Well, hello to your daughter, sir. Hello. Good to see you. Uh, Mahabu Shetty, good evening, ma'am. I'm good. How are you doing? Uh, Brave Robot is cooking dinner. Well, Brave Robot is cooking dinner. I hope it's tasty and is good. Yeah. Uh meets mystery. Namaste online. Har mahadev tesh pandemi once again. Kahan Obear hello good to see you sir. Uh online once again Shandi Chandani Priya good evening ma'am. Krishna of the Surum Netherlands. Good good afternoon sir. Good afternoon Alvin Rodriguez. Hello wise idiot. Good to see you. Okay Anu. Uh who else do we have? Mahita Bushetti J Krishna indeed. Tushar Kalborgi good to see you. Namaste. General Subutai, hello. Hello. Mitri once again back after a long time. Good to have you, sir. Good to have you always. This is Hushkapur. Good evening. Kamal Parasher from Merit UP. Good to see you, sir. Vihank Kuran, good to see you as well. Uh, who else? Who else? Uh, Mac 4 J1U, good to see you. Namaste. Rahul Kumar. Rakkesh Mistri is here from Bangladesh. Good evening, sir. Namaskar. Namaskar. Darren Patil is here from Mahashri. Happy Mah to everybody in advance. Anand pai no emotions left. Okay. Um and so many other people. Manisha namaste. Ansley Franco. Hello. Rakkesh Misti once again. Kahan and the strummer. Rahul Dunak. Good evening. Namaste G. Viprit. Viprit. Good to see you. Vrit Arjun is here from Siliguri. Well, good evening to you. Rahul Hintani is here from Mumbai. Random skull. Jri Krishna. M41 J1U says I don't watch India Pakistan matches. Well, good for you, sir. Good for you. PG Dhland is here from Dohlan, Germany. Well, good evening. Uh good afternoon to you and thank you for the kind words. Uh who else do we have? We we're going to have a lot of people obviously uh I won't be able to greet you all. Meet Bri, Krishna Sharma, Ujasit Kumar, uh Cast Jana, Kastana, Rahul Sanjjo, Sanjay Mukji is here from Shanghai. Good evening. Uh good uh yeah good night I suppose almost parak parakala is here from Miami good morning chess pro rahad g um so many people okay so uh I won't be able to greet you all individually as always but uh let's see we we I'll take questions from the live chat not from the live chat from the comments but I saw a couple of questions in the live chat so let me take a couple of those just before I begin I where are these where are these at the very beginning I suppose So, um, one second. Where did we have it? I saw something somewhere. Yes, Zubon isn't says, "Long time." Well, long time. Good to have you. There's a problem going on in Nagaland between the Nagas and the cookies right now. Can you please analyze it for us? And SKR says, "The way things are going, I think soon I will need to say good evening from Impal Cookand." So uh I'm not sure if the media is reporting much about what's happening in Manipur, Nagal and that area. Uh but um well yeah what we are seeing here is what we are seeing is what's happening. So um um Zubonis wants me to analyze what's happening. I have analyzed this in detail. I mean the root causes and all that. uh so the the core issue is that this region of the far eastern region of India the Manalipur Nagaland region it's on the border between India and Burma I mean let's take a look at the map okay give me a second I'll put it on the map it's on the border it's it's a border region and uh to the east we have Burma Manipur and Nagalan both and in this part of Burma there's a there's a group of I mean there's this group of uh tribals you know various tribal ethnicities who collectively have been given the the name cookies by the British and who are not Indian, who are not even Burmese and they have infiltrated in very large numbers in in parts of large parts of large areas of Manipur and so on and uh the British brought them into India as a punishment for the uh Manipuri kings who fought against the British the Mate Hindu kings. Um and in 1900 the number of cookies in Manipur was like measly like maybe a th00and 2,000 or whatever. I see the you can check out the British census records but today it's lacks and lacks in the past 10 or so years 10 15 20 years several lakhs have infiltrated across the open border into Manipur and they have taken over very large parts of Manipur territory. These are all foreigners. But the moment they come into India, they acquire documents and uh they say that we have been here forever. Then we are the original inhabitants. The mates are outsiders. That's sort of nonsense they say. And in the 1980s and 1990s, especially in the 1990s, the cookies went to war against the Nagas. The Nagas are also an indigenous ethnic group in the region. The mates and the Nagas are the indigenous people of Manipur and Nagaland. The cookies are foreigners. In the 1990s, the cookies went to war against the nagas and there were these massive clashes and the cookies were given shelter for some reason by the mates to to calm things down. Yeah. And now 2023 onwards, the cookies have gone to war against the mates and they've done horrific atrocities, absolute terrorism. And now that the mates have been subdued with the help possibly of the Indian government who has disarmed them. See in the northeast of India, the far east of India from the 1950s onwards, every state had multiple ethn uh insurgencies. The government of India gave horrific step stepmotherly treatment to all these states. So everybody wanted to be out of India. Everybody went insurgent in every state whether it is Misoramid, whether it is Nagaland, whether it is Assam, whether it is Manipur, whether it is whatever the state, you had multiple insurgences and multiple ethnic groups. So Manipur also had multiple ethnic groups. So the Matey ethnic groups have been disarmed now mostly by the government of India. But the cookies are fully armed and now they're going to war against against the Nagas. The cookies will not stop until they have taken everything over. And for some reason the government of India seems to be okay with this for some reason. Whatever it is. So uh now that the mates have been confined to this little part of Manipur, now the cookies are going after the Nagas. That's what's happening right now. I'm not sure if the media is covering this. So it looks like cookie land for Christ is happening. And see it's not a religious issue. The Nagas are themselves now all mostly converted to Christianity. The cookies claim to be Christian. Sometimes they claim to be Jews even though they eat pork. But now they're going to war against the Nagas. I'm I suppose it from the government of India's perspective this may serve some kind of geopolitical interest. I don't I'm not sure what the interests are. I fail to see it. Maybe there is some you know master stroke calculation somewhere perhaps. So that's what's happening. So the cookies are now going to war against the Nagas Christian on Christian. Um so it looks like cookie land has already happened. If you see the visuals coming out on social media in places like Churachpur, you have these big mobs of cookie terrorists armed with automatic rifles or who are shouting and screaming and jumping and dancing and playing music and fighting each other and setting in other parts of Manipur setting fire to the houses of various uh uh Naga people, Naga villages. So it looks like Kukiland has already happened. It's a de facto separate administration, de facto separate country. You don't see any Indian armed forces or Indian government officials anywhere in these videos. So cookie land for Christ has happened. I would not say that India has full sovereignty or Manipur anymore. That's the situation. Okay. Now let's go get going with uh with with the questions I have chosen from the comments. Right. Okay. uh many people wanted to uh me to discuss the trade deal. I mean I discussed it last week. Uh first of all let's okay let's see the questions. Abisha says the US has changed the deal slightly in India's favor. Do you think India demanded it? Rush says the US released a fact sheet and then changed it. India commits to India intents. So the joint statement between India and the US which was put out by the um by the Indian government said that India intends to purchase $500 billion of US products within a certain time frame and the American statement said that India has committed to purchasing that. So that's a pressure tactic. That's the you know putting this this falsehood out in public. The intention was to then make India postf facto accept this this change. So India has stood firm and now it has the Americans have changed it back to India intents in instead of India commits pulses clause. The Americans had introduced some pulses clause that was never agreed upon. Uh data security tax etc all those things. So yeah, the Americans have tried all these backhanded maneuvers and all these pressure tactics and all these underhand tactics, all these arm twisting maneuvers and methods. So let's understand one thing very clearly my friends. This trade deal it's an interim framework for it's it's a framework for an inter interim trade deal. So an interim trade deal is not a final trade deal. It's a temporary thing and what has been announced is a framework for an inter interim trade deal. So it's not even a deal. It's just a framework. So understand this, any deal with the US is not worth the paper it is written on. Trump will go and change it tomorrow morning. Trump will walk out of the deal if he feels like. Trump does that, doesn't he? Trump walked out recently of the deal he signed with South Korea. Trump in the past has walked away from deal that was signed by the US with Iran the JCPOA the joint comprehensive plan of action in 2017 or whatever it was the US habitually walks out of deals it has signed so understand I don't know why certain people are celebrating this trade deal with the US even politicians are celebrating it in certain political parties there's nothing to celebrate here this is a framework for a temporary interim trade trade deal which is not even the final thing and this is a framework and the moment the framework was announced the Americans started you know post factor changing it so there is nothing to c celebrate here if things stand as they are they are okay it's not a terribly bad deal for India it's actually in in a variety of ways better than the deals the Americans have given to their own allies okay let's not compare with Bangladesh for on one or two points not important and if you see the drill down into the points you will see there is no comparison at So overall it's a decent thing. It's a it's a if if it actually stands then it's actually a good deal for India comp compared to what the Americans have given to their allies. It's obviously not an equal deal but the Americans aren't treated treating anybody equally. Right? So overall it's it's good relative to everything else the Americans are doing. Uh but once again my my word of caution is that no deal signed with the Americans is worth the paper they signed on. The Americans will anytime at any given point in time if they feel like it, they will tear it up and walk away. So nothing to celebrate over here as far as I see it. Okay. Next. Real Vladimir Putin says, "What is the update in the Russia India relationship? Is India falling into the American camp?" Omisha says Russian deputy deputy foreign minister says hopes India Russia ties won't suffer and USA is trying to ban India. Maybe Russia is worried that India may slowly reduce its oil imports. Also India exits a Russia backed Mali lithium project. Has the US secured a geopolitical victory? Will Delhi Moscow relations suffer? Look what does the US want from India? The US wants India bending the need. The US wants India becoming their vasal. That's what the Americans want. It's plain and clear. Plain and simple. No question about it. India does not want to become anyone's vasal. So India is resisting this. Okay. India is resisting. The Americans are pushing for this. So what is the situation? India has recently gone ahead like we discussed and signed this framework for an intering trade deal with the US. And the terms we have secured are reasonably good compared to what other US allies have secured. So it's overall good. But what did we have to give up in exchange? One thing is Chabahar. We have walked out of it. It looks like we have liquidated our stake in the Chabahar port, paid the money to Iran and walked out. It looks like Yeah, that's one thing. The secondly, it looks like the Americans are insisting that India will not buy any more Russian oil and the Trump the White House put out a different set of different documents in which clause 4 or something says that the US will set up a monitoring situation that will monitor India's activities and if if India resumes any kind of purchase of Russian oil whether it is direct or indirect then the Americans will reimpose 25% tariffs on India. So I'm not sure if this was agreed upon in the trade deal. Maybe this is something that's external to the trade deal. But the Americans once again are using their leverage upon us and they are insisting that India will not buy Russian oil anymore. Now, now the question is the Indian government is in a dilemma. This was not part of the trade deal possibly because the joint statement says nothing about Russian oil. So, it looks like this was not part of the trade deal, but the Americans are putting it in through the back door, through something that's external to the trade deal that they're going to set up a monitoring uh situation, whatever monitoring center. They'll monitor Indian activities. Who the hell are they? They are the hedgemon of the world. They are the superpower. They can do it. That's the hell who the hell they are, right? So, they will do If you if India purchases even one tanker worth of Russian oil, then 25% tariffs back on India. So that puts India into a very tough situation. What does India do? One thing India can do is stop purchasing Russian oil. But then you lose your so-called strategic autonomy and it's not exactly vasal hood but it's one step along the road to becoming a vasal. It's it's one step. It's not all the way. But once you start accepting external pressures as to what you will do, you know, before the 2024 election, parliamentary election, general election, Prime Minister Modi had had given a bunch of interviews, right, to various uh media outlets. In one of these interviews, Prime Minister Modi had said that whatever happens, India does not accept thirdparty pressure or third party directions as to what to do in any bilateral relationship. So let's say we have a relationship with let's say India and Russia we will not accept any third party instructions as to how to behave like US instructions that's that's the kind of thing he had said and here if India actually agrees to what the Americans are insisting then that independence clearly is gone and now we are even in Chabahar the Americans are insisting we stop playing the game so we we have pulled out once again the Americans are deciding what we do so we are kind of not bending the knee completely, not caving in completely, but we are kind of bowing down to a little to a small extent then you know what maybe it's a temporary thing. Maybe we'll do it for a while and maybe we will hide our strength and bing shopping said said for China. So that's a valid strategy in geopolitics. when you are weak, you show that you're weak and yes sir, we will do what you say but don't give up the core red lines of your strategic autonomy and sovereignty. So uh so what's the update on the India relationship? It it remains to be seen. I think the Russians are concerned. The Russians have offered various things to India. They've offered the Sukoy 57. I'm not sure if it's the best aircraft. Maybe the Rafal is a good idea. I'm not sure if the Rafal deal is the best deal or maybe it is. I don't know. But the Russians wanted India to go for the Sukoy 57. We've had issues with Russian equipment in the past with the MiG 29s and maybe even the Sukoy 30s, you know, availability of spares and the engine serviceability issues and so on. So maybe the Rafal may be actually a better deal compared to the Sukoy 57. Even the the Russians operate only 20 or so Sukoy 57s. So if it's something the Russians have adopted in large numbers, then we will be confident it's a good plane. So there are issues. So that's why we have gone for the Rafal. The Russians obviously would have preferred we buy their aircraft. They were apparently offering full technology transfer but once again we have faced issue with issues with the Russia in the past regarding these things whether it is aircraft carriers, whether it is fighter planes and other things. So one has to be careful right. Um overall I would say the India Russia relationship is very important for India. India can't afford to you know jump into the American lap into the American camp and abandon Russia doesn't make sense for India to do that u of course the US pressure will be intense it's the pressure will be felt by our officials behind the scenes it will not be visible to us uh Mali lithium project also there is this issue right is there an American angle in there as well so if this continues if this pattern continues then perhaps India India Russia relations may suffer right um if India genuinely stops purchasing Russian oil it doesn't look like we have done that so far but if we are not doing that then we will see 25% tariffs being slapped back upon us very soon so we'll have to see if tariffs aren't slapped by Donald Trump 25% on India then it means that India has actually stopped purchasing Russian oil which will be a significant concession to the Americans and it will of course be a setback for Russia. It will also be to some extent a setback to India Russia relations, right? Uh so I think it it's still too early to say whether the Americans have secured this geopolitical victory of forcing India to stop purchasing Russian oil the way they have forced in the past India to stop buying Venezuelan oil in 2010 or thereabouts and later Iranian oil. Have they now forced NATO to stop buying Russian oil? If they have, then it's a significant setback for India and for Russia and for India Russia relations. I think we need to wait and watch. It's too early to uh pass judgment on on this matter. But it looks like at least some of their pressure is having an effect on India. So let's see. Too early to say. Okay. Mali, right? Sam Panic says, "After the Bhat US trade deal, we are getting signs of Bhat gradually reducing its crude oil imports from Russia and recently Bat exited from Russianbacked lithium project in Mali due to security reasons. Is Barat now slowly caving into American demands? What's your thought on this matter?" Miran Kasikar Biswar says, "After India pulled out of the Russia backed lithium project in Mali over security concerns, are we being pushed towards choosing sides? And from a purely self-interested self standpoint, should India leverage its massive market the way China does to extract deeper technology transfers, defense partnerships and better market access from Russia? Real brother Putin says what's the possibility of us India becoming a US. The government of India has already helped us in Manipur. In the case of Starling, they are digging their own grave. Even if they are not on foreign payroll, they are making sure that the potential regime change in India by US in the future becomes easy for Americans. So what's going on? So this Mali situation. So India has couple of days ago the news came out that India has pulled out of uh of this uh project Russia backed lithium project in Mali citing securities the security isn't great and so on. I mean Russia is there Russia is not worried about security. How come India is worried about it? India also one angle one possibility is that India has also discovered its own massive lithium uh reserves in various parts of India why not develop those instead of going and working in Mali but if you work in Mali with the Russians then you have access to you know resources from that that part of the world from that part of Africa which obviously gives you options it it it's called diversification right so it makes sense to do that but India has pulled out of that so has that happened under American pressure it's possible it is indeed possible see If if it's not happened under American pressure, it's because of security reasons. In in that case, it shows that India has no appetite for risk. Geopolitically, you need to have an appetite for risk. The Russians have an appetite for risk. They take big risks in sending their uh paramilitary forces etc. in in various parts of Africa. There are casualties, there are setbacks, right? These things happen. Your people die sometimes. But the nation as a whole, Russia, it it takes risks, right? China also takes risks. Not to the extent that Russia does. So Russia, it is the muscle and China is the money. That's the relationship in Africa. India could I mean it makes sense for India to also be involved in Africa. But if India has genuinely done this for security reasons where it's it's strange. I mean we can send our own our own troops if required, right? or a paramilitary force not the official Indian armed forces or depend on Russian security which is usually good. So I'm not sure what's happened. If it is because of American pressure, then once again we are kind of on the road slowly towards a situation where we could potentially be called a US wasal in the future. Not right now. Right? So and and maybe it's American pressure and maybe it's it's a strategic choice we've taken right now. Right now we are not strong enough. Let's pull back. That also is a valid choice. It doesn't mean we areal today. But if this continues over and over again if there's a pattern that just goes in a certain direction for a long period of time for a for a in a consistent manner that's when you start becoming a vasal gradually slowly right now it's not the case but yeah it's concerning to some extent at least um yeah so is bat slowly caving into US demands looks like there are there are some indications that to some extent we are accepting American demands it looks like possibly can't say for sure but it looks like that I mean there are no coincidences in geopolitics right pulling out of chabahar this Mali thing uh the US removing the 25% tariffs on India for purchasing Russian oil and setting up monitoring of India if India resumes the purchase of Russian oil all these things form a pattern at least three data points we have let's see if more data points emerge we'll see about that so looks like we are accepting some US demands possibly but that doesn't mean that we are a vasal right now if this continues and it crosses certain lines then you can say we are on the road to washood but yeah you can say this is the first steps in that direction it doesn't mean we are that um Manipur yeah we discussed Manipur Manipur is a disaster we don't have any more full sovereignty of Manipur in my opinion okay Starlink I am have been very clear from the very beginning India should not allow Starlink to operate in India but looks like we are doing exactly what I have been saying not to do. So we'll see it's still not operational in India but uh looks like we are going in that direction. I hope not. Um and there are all the various internal issues in India and so on. So yeah you know these are those those times in the world when everything seems tough but that's that's where we are. Okay. RPPL says do you think India is doing bad in Jew politics because first India doesn't make any irreversible harm to terrorist nation Pakistan during operation zindur and also did not get any territorial gains Bangladesh is out of hand to oppose it in in opposite Indra Gandhi separated Pakistan and Bangladesh so the question is why is India not doing well in geopolitics right I mean for some time for a for a few years it was all about the rise of India and all that Right. India is now respected across the world. When you travel abroad, people see you with respect. And and that was a story for a while, wasn't it? And now it looks like everything is going backwards, right? So what's the situation? See, I am a realistic person. I am not a sensationalist. I don't sensationalize things like very lots of YouTubers do. you know all those world whenever I go to uh def to uh as a guest on a podcast typically I discuss the things I discuss here but you will see that the title and thumbnail is a lot world war II that sort of thing so that is called sensationalism I don't do sensationalism at least here on this channel I don't do it anywhere else but yeah the title and thumbnail that other people put up it's not in my control the point is I am realistic and let's discuss this realistically is India doing well in geopolitics and is India poorly in geopolitics. I think it's middle ground somewhere. India isn't doing great in geopolitics. India isn't doing great overall but India is still growing as an economy. India has a lot that's going in its favor. But India has issues. India has various issues. So I always discuss things from the perspective of hard power, power projection, military bases, GDP and so on. Let's discuss things from a geoeconomic perspective, shall we? Hm. So where does India stand in terms of see the most powerful countries in the world? They control a number of things in the world or in some parts of the world at least. They control resources. Resources are the key to everything in geopolitics. They're the key to power. Okay? They control resources. Then they control or own manufacturing. You take those raw materials, raw resources, natural resources and turn them into finished products. That happens through manufacturing. So you have resources and you have manufacturing. Then to do manufacturing you need human capital. You need highquality human beings. Okay? You need intellectual property, the knowhow, the technology to convert these raw materials into finished products. Right? Human capital. It's intellectual property. It is technology. So you have resources, you have manufacturing, you have human capital, intellectual property and technology. Then and knowledge, knowledge the knowhow of how to do things and then at the end of the day you need money. Your GDP matters, right? What's your GDP? How much are you earning and how much what's your gross domestic produce and so on. So where does India stand in all of this? India is not I mean India is a massive land area, right? subcontinent sized thing land area. So we have plenty of resources but we don't have the kind of resources that Russia has or Africa has as a whole. We lack certain natural resources such as oil and gas. We depend on other countries for our energy requirements. Right? We uh import oil and gas from various other nations. We are not self-sufficient in terms of energy. We are not energy sovereign. uh other resources for example file material uranium we have to import from other countries right um we produce most of our own food and so on so when it comes to resources the critical things we kind of lack when it comes to rare earths and lithium and all we have big resources but we don't use them so you see that that that is a lack of strength that's a lack of initiative lack of whatever but it makes you weaker compared to nations who actually use the resources they have then manufacturing Well, where are we on manufacturing? What happened to make in India? It's going okay. It's not 10 out of 10. It's not 0 out of 10. It's maybe five out of 10, right? It's not doing great, but it's not doing very poorly also. Maybe five out of 10. But China is like 9.8 out of 10 in terms of manufacturing. The Chinese have done their job. The Chinese also have this lack of resources at least in terms of energy. But manufacturing, they have mastered it. Human capital, they have really improved the human capital through the education system and through training. They they're they're citizens in uh science and technology and manufacturing and all that engineering all that they have acquired all the intellectual intellectual property they need the all the technology they need all the knowledge the knowhow they need India lags far behind in in China than China in these matters so resources India lacks resources manufacturing India is not doing great manufacturing we haven't solved our problems human capital abysmal poor ridiculously bad trashy education system technology we still beg for technology knowledge and knowhow it's all going out brain drain right when it comes to GDP we're doing okay but we are like 1/4 of China one I don't know what of the US so very fourth largest GDP in the world but relatively quite small so these are the issues why India is doing poorly in geopolitics okay it's not just about military strength it's not just about how many nukes you have from a military perspective the air force force while India's air force is just slightly ahead of the the Pakistani air force. Can you believe it? I just don't understand how we have reached the situation, right? Uh we still import things. We still import Rafals. We've signed a huge deal with the French for Rafals. Missiles, we have some of the best missiles in the world. I I hope we have adequate numbers of missiles. Maybe tens of thousands of missiles we would need to fight a proper sustained war. I hope we have that. I'm not sure. But let's see. Uh navy wise we are on u we have embarked upon a ship building uh campaign which is good maybe 50 warships are being constructed right now all right uh we are lagging behind terribly in submarines right power projection well we can't project power even in the subcontinent the external powers can do region changes around us all around us east Pakistan west Pakistan Nepal etc we just sit and watch so we can't even project power in our own neighborhood in our own backyard right forget about the Indian Ocean region. The Indian Ocean region is our strategic backyard. That's our slogan. But what do we actually do for it to make it happen? Uh maybe we are kind of working on that. But yeah, the navy naval power is is key to that. Uh we are essentially out of the space race now. The government doesn't seem to think that space is important when everybody else is going to the moon and then to Mars and also in Earth orbit. But we have simply given up it looks like the space race. And then we have internal issues in India. I mean you must have heard me say that the Americans when they talk about India their relationship with India they they speak about shared shared values that India and the US have shared values but when the Americans talk about Pakistan they talk about shared interests that the US and Pakistan have shared interests well interests always trump values do we all do we Indians 1.4 4 billion Indians. Do we have shared values? Do we have shared interests? Well, the way things are going, different groups have different interests and different values now. And different groups are being pitted against each other within the country. So when this happens, you're going to have internal divisions. The internal divisions were originally created by the Turks and then by the British. But now we are exacerbating that. we are deepening and widening the the the the divisions of the fissures. That's what we are doing. So these are the reasons why India is doing not so great in geopolitics. You see it's not about Pakistan and the terrorist nation and operation Sindur and obviously all that is also there. These are symptoms not the actual root causes you see. So yeah that's a realistic view of where India stands in geopolitics. Real Vladimir Putin says what makes the US so powerful that it can intervene militarily anywhere without damaging its economy. Swami says why does the US have so advanced power projection capabilities? China and Russia also have very strong militaries and are neck in multiple military technologies. Is power projection mostly dependent on military bases overseas? So why is the US so powerful? It can intervene militarily anywhere without damaging its economy. Well, it doesn't intervene somewhere where it has economic interests. If it goes and uh takes over Venezuela, it actually gains something for its economic interests, right? It it it actually advances America's economic interests. The Americans will not go and bomb a country that works for them. The US has a very large number of vasals across the world. The Americans will never bomb them or or or damage those economies. So it will intervene wherever there is no damage to its economy. It will intervene in where in various parts of the world in such a way that it actually enhances American power projection and American control over the world. Right? And why is the US so powerful? Because it has almost global power projection capabilities. It can intervene anywhere on the surface of the planet at roughly 60 minutes notice. intervene militarily because it has so many more than probably 800 extra territorial military bases spread across the world. That is why right uh why does the US have these advanced power possession capabilities? Because um some of the nations we talk about are occupied physically occupied by the US military like Japan, South Korea, Germany, Italy etc. in terms in the case of Europe. Well, Europe was beggared in the aftermath of the Second World War. The Americans helped rebuild their economy and um and in exchange for that Europe was vasalized and it was it was acceptable to the Europeans because the Americans were anyway the most powerful military power in the world at the time. The Europeans they were they were on their knees after the second world war and they just accepted whatever terms they got. That's Europe. Then when it comes to uh West Asia, the so-called Middle East, well, once again, the Americans have entered into various kinds of arrangements with these nations where the nations get the benefit of American protection in exchange for giving America their oil. So that's a petro dollar system and so on. So power is dependent at the bottom of the hierarchy entirely on military power. But it's also about creating economic interdependence. It's also about creating economic dependence more than interdependence. and uh it's about vasalizing countries in a variety of ways and so on. It's also about having the best technologies and so on. So it's a multiplicity of factors put together that uh give the US these global essentially power production capabilities. When it comes to China and Russia, they have strong militaries. Okay. Sure the Russia has a strong military but Russia doesn't have this network of anywhere in the world apart from Belarus maybe. Yeah. Who else? I suppose Belerus that's about it. Have I missed somebody? Have I missed something? Belerus. Does does Russia have uh extr territorial military bases naval in nature? No. It had Latakia. I'm not sure what the situation with Latakia is. What about China? Does China have this sort of thing? A network of vasals. It has North Korea. Iran is an all of Vasal. So China has North Korea. That's about it. And China doesn't have extra territorial naval bases anywhere or military bases across outside its territory apart from maybe Jihodi or maybe one or two things in Madagascar which are like not really um you know vasals vasal like relationships. So China doesn't have anything like what the US has and that's why the US is so far ahead of everybody else. Vidhi Manar says when India will become the most powerful entity in the Indian subcontinent Pakistan will become irrelevant for us. But right now Russia is the most powerful. Why? Then why does Russia still have to deal with Ukraine? Well, Russia still has to deal with Ukraine because Russia is not the most powerful entity when it comes to Ukraine. See, let's go to the map. It's it's a great question actually. It's a great question. Let's understand this in relative terms. So here's the map. When it comes to the Indian subcontinent, the Americans can do a regime change in Pakistan. They can occupy Afghanistan. They can do a regime change in Nepal. They can do a regime change in west in East Pakistan. They can play around with Sri Lanka. They can do all these things in India's backyard and India has to simply watch and India can't do a thing. India can't stop the US from doing these things. That indicates that in the Indian subcontinent the US is the most powerful geopolitical actor not India. So even in the subcontinent the US is more powerful than India. Okay that's that's just a fact of life. So in the future someday when India becomes more powerful than than the US in its neighborhood that's when Pakistan will naturally disintegrate. But that's someday in the future if it whenever it happens. Now when it comes to let's say Western Europe, you see the most powerful geopolitical entity in Western Europe isn't France, it isn't Germany, it is the US. Okay? The US is the most powerful geopolitical and military entity in Western Europe. when it comes to the borderlands between Western and Eastern Europe, between let's say Western Europe and the Russian uh the Slavic regions, that's where power overlaps. So Ukraine was kind of neutral for a while for a long time until 2014 when the Americans uh did the Euroban coup in Kiev and that's when Ukraine came under American uh influence and you could say control and uh the the government the Americans set up in in Ukraine it went ahead and did all these atrocities against the people of Donbas for like close to a decade and so on and eventually this led to the war. So why did the war happen? because the American power in Ukraine was becoming greater than Russian power and this was a red line for Russia. If Americans if Ukraine had become a member of NATO let's say then you would had you would have had American troops and nukes on Russia's actual borders and that's why Russia had to go to war. So this tells you that the US is actually more powerful in Ukraine than Russia because even now even now Zalinski is in power in Kiev and he is still getting tremendous amounts of money and arms and ammunition from the west from mainly the European nations who are doing this at the behest of the US. So it tells you that in Ukraine the US is more powerful than Russia you see. So in Ukraine, Russia is less powerful than the US and that's why the situation called the Ukraine war exists. That is the truth. Miganga Karbiswa says what's really behind the old oil blockade on Cuba? Another of Trump's Monro doctrine impositions and Swami says what's going on in Cuba? Why is the US blocking oil shipments to Cuba and trying to strangle its economy? Is an attack on Cuba imminent? What do Americans gain by attacking a small insignificant nation like Cuba with no natural resources? Let's take a look at the map and see where Cuba is so that we can orient ourselves and then we shall discuss what is happening visav Cuba and the United States. So Cuba so we go to the Atlantic Ocean and Cuba is is this island over here. Okay. It was uh I think Columbus had at some point in time discovered that this island. Um and Cuba it's it's an island in the Caribbean Sea uh east of the Gulf of Mexico. And so this is the island. It's not far from Florida at all. If you see um the distance you will see it's it's hardly 230 to 240 km from from the southern tip of Florida and if we talk about key west then it's even closer. So that that is Cuba. Now Cuba has had this government that has been independent and not vasalized by the US for the longest time. I mean you had the Cuban missile crisis when Kennedy was president right 196 what 2 63 62 62 was the Cuban missile crisis. So Cuba at the time was ruled by Fidel Castro. It was aligned with the USSR and uh the Soviets had imp placed nuclear weapons and missiles in Cuban territory and that's why the Cuban missile crisis happened. So that goes back to the 1960s 1962. It's in the 1950s I believe that Fidel Castro took over the uh the island the control of the island and became the dictator and he died in the 21st century. His brother Rahul Castro became president. I'm who's the president of Cuba right now? Let's quickly find out who's the president of Cuba. Is it still Rahul Castro? Is he alive? Who's the president of Cuba? Let's see. Miguel Dias Canel. Okay. Whoever that is. So, so the deal is that Cuba is an actually independent nation and it has uh opposed US vasalhood for the longest time and it has sided with the USSR in the past and the Americans now are alleging that Cuba is siding siding with Russia and China and also Hezbollah and Hamas and whatnot. So these are the allegations the Americans are are are making on Cuba and the Americans are saying that Cuba is now a base from which anti-American activities are being carried out. So Cuba is harboring terrorists apparently allegedly from Hezbollah Hamas. is also uh handin glove with the Russians and the Chinese to damage American interests and that's why the Americans say that they have imposed this uh oil blockade on Cuba. So obviously if you want to do a regime change you need a justification for it right even the Americans can't say that you know we hate you and we want to just get rid of you. They have to at least you know keep up appearances to a certain extent and and make some allegations. Um so the American Secretary of State Marco Rubio is a child of Cuban immigrants. So a couple of years before Fidel Castro became the president of Cuba or the dictator of Cuba uh Rubio's parents migrated to the US from Cuba and Rubio and the cub and there's this big Cubanamerican community in Florida. The capital of Florida is Miami. It's a very Cuban city, you know. uh lots of Cuban origin people there and these people who have escaped from Cuba over the years and decades they are strongly in favor of an American mediated regime change operation in Cuba so that Cuba becomes democratic again. So there's a big uh big constituency in Florida of Cubanameans who support in favor a regime change in Cuba and even Marco Rubio uh is in favor of a regime change in Cuba. So that's the political situation and that's why the Americans have now imposed this oil blockade on Cuba which is devastating the Cuban economy. There are power shortages and the hospitals are have no power. It's a possibly a humanitarian crisis and so on. The objective is to demoralize the the Cuban government, the Cuban people and to make it impossible for the government to continue u operating and then when the time is right swoop in and uh maybe do a regime change. Uh so that is the objective of the United States. Now why uh is the US doing this? Why is the US doing this to a small insignificant nation with no natural resources? That's the question. It's it's a good question. Cuba has no major natural resources. Cuba imports oil from it used to import oil from Mexico and Venezuela. So Mexico, the Americans aren't in Mexico and Mexico stopped exporting oil to Cuba and then America took over Venezuela. So even that Venezuelan oil that was coming to Cuba has stopped and now the Americans have imposed a blockade, a naval blockade on Cuba. So any oil tanker which is going towards Cuba will be stopped and impounded essentially. So no oil can reach Cuba. So Cuba is now starving of energy. Why? Why? Why is Cuba significant? Obviously, it has no natural resources. So what is the deal? So first of all, first of all, back to the map. Back to the map. Back to the map. Cuba is it's it occupies it's a big island and it's a strategically important location, right? Um obviously it's close to the US. The Americans can do whatever they want in this region. And uh the second thing is obviously the the revived Trump Monro doctrine. So Donald Trump has revived the Mandro doctrine. The Monro doctrine is this 1823 foreign policy of the United States which stated that no European or external power will be allowed henceforth from 1823 onwards to interfere in the internal affairs of any nation in the Americas whether it is North America, South America or Central America. Okay. So this foreign policy was adopted by the Americans in 1823. Trump has revived it. Trump says that the US was now the US is now going to be the super cop in the Americas. Whether it's now South or Central America, no external country is allowed to interfere in the affairs of the Americas. Only the US will decide what happens. And not just that there is a Trump corollary on this which says that any American nation in the Americas if it goes against the interests of the US in any way the Americans will deal with it and take care of it and you know yeah essentially deal with it and that's what they've done in Venezuela. So now they're applying it to Cuba. Essentially what the Americans want is that every single nation in the Americas must be a proper American basal. there will be no disscent or opposition allowed anymore. So what that tells us is that sooner or later there's going to be a regime change now in Cuba. Cuba has held out for decades. How many decades? 60s 60s7s 80s 90s 2000s 2010s that's like 60 65 almost 70 years they've held out. They've resisted. Looks like now time is up for Cuba. Right. There we are. There we are. Right. Aush says, "US is now talking about Venezuela as if it's an American colony. The world will now purchase Venezuelan oil resources, etc. They boast like it's their own. Is being a small nation a curse?" Well, being a small Yeah. So, the Americans now own Venezuela. They now own and control Venezuelan oil, right? Uh the Venezuelan government will be allowed to sell oil, but on American terms. So the Venezuel Venezuelan government will be allowed to sell oil either to American companies or to nations that are approved by the US and there is talk of Venezuelan Venezuelan oil being sold to India with the American stamp of approval. Right? So the Americans now control the fate and the economy of Venezuela. Terrible, isn't it? Terrible. Terrible. Yes. Sad. Sad and tragic. So, is being a small nation a curse? Well, let me show you a small nation. Okay, let me show you a small nation and let's decide if being a small nation is a curse. We have this small nation here called the UK. Yeah, the UK. It ruled most of the world a century um a c 120 years ago. It ruled mo much of the world. It ruled the whole of India. It ruled much of Africa and much of the world. The sun never set over the British Empire. The UK is a small nation, a small island nation. Is being a small nation a curse? Being a small nation is not necessarily curse. Just like being a huge nation is not necessarily a boon. So what is the curse here? Weakness. The greatest sin in geopolitics is weakness. Okay? If you are weak, don't blame others for your misfortunes. Why are you weak? Why have you allowed yourself to be in a situation where you have weaknesses? It's weakness that puts you in this situations. It's weakness that allows others to take advantage of you. The greatest sin in geopolitics is weakness. So Venezuela, its sin was weakness. If it had acquired somehow, let's say, nuclear weapons or something, then nobody would dare touch it. Look at North Korea. Another small nation. Does the US dare bully North Korea? No, it doesn't. Right? So being a small nation isn't a curse. It's not a sin. Being a weak nation is a curse and a sin. The greatest sin in geopolitics. Remember that my friends. Briankas says, "Now that the BNP, Bangladeshi National Party has won and Prime Minister Modi was quick to reach out to Tariq Rahman. Do you think do you feel India and Bangladesh can truly reset relations after the strain under Yunus or has too much trust already been lost? Rushabd says the recent elections in Bangladesh just concluded BNP clean swept the elections with two/3s plus majority. Jamaat too made some gains. Tarik Rahman will most likely be the new prime minister. Dr. Deshunar had met him in Dhaka during Khalida Zia's funeral. He is Kali Zia's son and Prime Minister Modi too wished him has there been something going on between India and the BNP what do you see ahead for Bangladesh for India for Yunus and his aids and the US who has takes here okay so there's been this election in Bangladesh Bangladesh and the BNP has won a massive majority right two-thirds majority or something like that and the head of the BNP is Tariq Rahman he is the son of the late Khalida the former prime minister of Bangladesh and Khaled Azia was a two or three time prime minister of Bangladesh and uh so that that's the situation. So this guy Tariq Kurman will most likely now going to be is now most likely going to be the new prime minister of Bangladesh and Dr. Jashankar was there in Dhaka. He met with this guy when you know during the funeral of Khaled Azia the guy's mother and the prime minister of India Mr. Modi has sent out a tweet congratulating Tariq Raman for his uh victory. So, so what's going on? Here's something going on between India and the BNP. Listen, the Bangladeshi elections, you know what kind of elections were held in Bangladesh. Imagine you had elections happening in Nazi occupied France. France was under Nazi occupation, right? from whatever year to whatever year 1939 40 to whatever until the end of the second world war or until the Normandy invasion France was under Nazi occupation the Vichi regime right so if there was an election in France during Nazi occupation would you call it a free and fair election would you call it a free and fair election in which the major national party is not allowed to stand is that a free and fair election it's not it's controlled by a foreign occupying force the Nazis right similar to the election you had in Bangladesh this The Awami League was not allowed to participate. It is a rigged election from the very beginning. It's not a democratic process and it was held under Muhammad Yunus who is an unelected dictator or puppet dictator of Bangladesh. Right? So the election was rigged from the beginning and now BNP has won. Now if the BNP has won it means they have been allowed to win by the by the by the power that controls Bangladesh. Which power controls Bangladesh? The United States. Ever since the coup against Shadina happened, the US has been in charge of Bangladesh. Right? The Americans effected a regime change in Bangladesh and they put Muhammad Yinus in the position of chief adviser or whatever the hell he is. Right? is just a puppet, a figurehead and the army is ruling Bangladesh. So if Tariq Rahman has won and the BNP has won, it's because they have been allowed to win and most likely they will continue to serve American interests. So just because the prime minister has wished this guy and just because Jashungar, Dr. Jashungar met him in Dhaka doesn't mean something is going on between India and this guy or India and the BNP. Okay, there is no master stroke happening. Maybe relations will be better between India and Bangladesh. Maybe more cordial, more polite relations, less acrimony like we had the past ever since the coup happened. I mean this fellow Muhammad Inus has been putting out these has been showcasing these books with uh you know Bangladesh capturing you know claiming Indian territory the far east of India, the northeastern states of India and so on. That's the kind of provocations he's been doing. Maybe with Kurman those provocations may cease and the and the relationship becomes more polite. But it doesn't mean that the relationship improves. Please understand the difference between words and actions. Words can be words don't matter. Words don't matter. The actions is what matters. So the question is what kind of policies will Bangladesh now have especially towards India going forward. I very strongly suspect that nothing much will change now that Bangladesh now supposedly is back on the democratic train which it isn't actually but now we can claim right the Americans always do this sham elections somewhere or the other and then they say okay everything is fine and then they control things from behind the scenes. I think that's what's going to happen in Bangladesh. Okay. I don't see any master stroke from India. Um you know whatever he may be retired by the Americans or whatever he may get a nice plum position somewhere in some other country. Maybe he'll move to New York City or something or maybe he'll stay in Bangladesh as a highly respected noble laurate or whatever. It doesn't matter. Yunus is not important. Yunus is not a powerful person. He is not in power. He's simply the the face, the figurehead, the puppet. He's not a person of any importance. Okay? So it doesn't matter what happens to Muhammad Inus, he is anyway not in power. Now there's going to be this Tariq Rahman guy who's going to be in power. It's kind of like Shabbash Shar being in power. That's kind of what what it's going to be like. So India the Indian government may say that you know what we will better relations and that sort of thing. But at the end of the day the real question is what kind of policies will Bangladesh adopt? Will they change from the policies we've had in the past year and a half? Will Bangladesh continue to claim Indian territory? Will Bangladesh continue its persecution of Hindus, its massacres of Hindus? Will Bangladesh continue whatever it is doing in the far east of India? Will Bangladesh continue its relationship with Pakistan with the ISI? These are the questions you should be asking. I think these things will continue. These nice tweets and handshakes and all, they don't they are of no importance whatsoever. So let's wait and watch how this evolves. This guy Tarik Raman becomes the new prime minister most likely. What kind of policies will he adopt. Let's see the next 6 months. I suspect nothing much will change. Maybe the behavior will become more polite. The relationship will become more cordial but behind the scenes the same policies will continue. Then what's the big deal? What's the big difference? Nothing. Nothing has changed then. So that's what I think will continue. Rushab Tar says, "Your views on the recent elections election in Japan. The LDP alone secured a two-thirds majority in a plurality in their upper house. So they can constitutionally do anything they want if they want." My question is will will madame Sai Takichi amend article 9 and pursue a peaceful as well as pursue a peaceful as well as nuclear weapon program which is an agenda given that her party has a super majority or will she face issues like Abisan and how does this impact China and India? Okay. So, Abasan wanted Japan to actually amend its constitution and move away from the American imposed pacifism and so on. And uh we know what happened to Abisan sadly tragically. Uh now Madame Saii has won a massive massive majority, super majority, two-thirds majority. Um, and this gives her the power to amend the Japanese constitution. The Japanese constitution has been in force since 1945. Who wrote the Japanese constitution? The American occupiers of Japan wrote the Japanese constitution. It was not written by the Japanese people. This constitution was written by the Americans. It was imposed upon the Japanese people in the nation of Japan. And since 1945 all the way until today, not one word has changed. The Japanese people have not been allowed to change a single word of the constitution. Now, Madame Saiichi potentially has the power to do that if she wants. The question is, will she amend change the constitution? What is article 9? Right? That's that's the big question here. It's the pacifist article. Okay. Article 9 of Japan Constitution, the pacifism clause, the landmark no war clause that legally renounces war as a sovereign right, prohibits the threat of force or use of force to settle international disputes and pledges not to maintain land, sea or air forces. And despite this, Japan maintains the civil defense forces for defensive purposes. Key provisions clause one, renunciation of war. Japan permanently renounces war as a sovereign right which means Japan is no longer a sovereign nation right and the threat or use of force as a means of settling international disputes. Second clause no war potential land sea and air forces as as as well as the other air potential war potential will never be maintained. Right of belligerency the right of belligerency of the state is not recognized so and so on. So the Japanese government interprets the constitution to allow the maintenance of the SDF for the minimum necessary self-defense which obviously you know works for the Americans because it allows the Americans to counter China. Yeah. Uh that sort of thing. So that's the article 9. That's article 9 of the Japanese constitution. Now Sonai could potentially have it changed. Even if he can potentially do it, will she actually do it? Will she amend article 9 and say that Japan now has the right to fight war to wage war? I in my opinion she will do it if the Americans allow it. Does it make sense for America to turn Japan into a different kind of country now? A country that can actually initiate warfare again for the first time since the 1940s. Does it make sense for the Americans to allow Japan to do that? And does it make sense for the US to allow Japan to have nuclear weapons? Maybe it does. Maybe it's time to to uh counter China more vigorously, more rubously. So if the if the Americans are concerned about China and China's potential to take Taiwan or potential to do whatever mischief in the region, then the Americans could allow Sai Takahi to to do these things. The point is if Sai Taki decides to do something unilaterally, she will face problems. She will face issues. But if she does this with the approval of the US behind the scenes, then it will go smoothly. It's I think likely that the the that the nation of Japan will have nuclear weapons by 2027 28. Most like I think it's likely and I've spoken about this on multiple occasions. I say this because one of the reasons I say this is because uh Henry Kissinger the great man had predicted the year he died 2023 that Japan will most likely have nuclear weapons in 5 years and the guy knew what he was talking about. So um that's one indicator that this could happen. So I think Sayata may be empowered by the Americans if they think it makes sense for Japan to become a more robust and more vigorous and more proactive counterforce counterbalance to China. In that case they will allow it. What does it mean for China and India? Obviously it is bad for China. The Japanese SDF self-defense forces are very capable. Very capable. The Japanese submarines are scary. The Chinese are scared of Japanese submarines. The Japanese Soryu class submarines are some of the best in the world. The Soryu class submarines that the Japanese Navy has decommissioned are better than the existing Indian Navy submarines. The decommissioned submarines are better than India India's active submarines. That's and and imagine how good the active succass submarines will be. Right? So uh the Japanese navy the Japanese submarines overall tremendously powerful. the China is is really really concerned about Japan Japan's uh military capabilities the way things stand as of today. So if Japan goes ahead and amends the article know maybe removes the article line of constitution and goes nuclear that's going to be tremendously concerning for China for India good for India actually if that happens good for India real says do you think China has an upper hand in this cold war because of their industrial complex and education system educational standards have declined significantly in the US so far better than India I suppose when you say vishuru I suppose you're saying India and China probably has the best education system in the world. What are my what are my my thoughts? Okay. Um do I think China has an upper hand in the cold war because their industrial complex because of their manufacturing over capacity their high techch um you know manufacturing capabilities and their education system. Clearly these things these these factors these are massive factors when it comes to um where where a nation stands in any kinds any kind of u geopolitical race. So like I explained earlier there are multiple factors that go into these things. You you need to have resources right? China has lots of resources but it lacks some resources um like oil and gas that it lacks. It also lacks various critical minerals and so on which it acquires from Africa and other countries. Uh China has the best manufacturing uh uh industrial capacity in the world. The best manufacturing in the world in China is neck to neck with the US in terms of various technologies. The Chinese have really really invested in human capital in uh their education system uh the the technology which which allows them to develop high-tech products the knowledge they have. So unless you develop you invest significantly in education in science, technology, engineering education, medicine education, you won't be able to become a major industrial power. So the Chinese probably like you say I agree with you probably have the best education system in the world now. They have invested trillions of dollars into their education system since the 1980s and 1990s and it has genuinely genuinely bore fruit for the Chinese. So the Chinese well one must salute them one must commend them for what they've achieved. They've put in the work they've put in the money and they've over the years step by step improved their education system to to a place where today it is world class probably the best in the world. So because of this tremendous human capital quality that the Chinese have, the best education system, tremendous human human capital, tremendous manufacturing capabilities, which obviously transforms or translates into um military manufacturing also, right? The Chinese are able to now manufacture jet engines and uh fifth and sixth generation fighter planes. They're improving the submarines. So obviously this this goes into military u the military sphere as well. So in these matters in some of these matters the Chinese have the upper hand of the US. When it comes to AI they're neto neck in the US. Uh when it comes to certain technologies they are slightly behind but not very far behind right. Uh so that's the situation right so yeah they are ahead in all the they are ahead or neck to neck with the US in these things. So does this mean that the Chinese have an upper hand in the cold war? Well, not quite. The Chinese don't have any power production capabilities. They have no missiles. That's where the US is far ahead of China. The US is also far ahead of China in in terms of the space race. Way ahead of China. The Americans can deploy hundreds thousands of miss of of of satellites, right? The American government is about possibly about 10,000 satellites in orbit of various kinds. A lot of these are military satellites and spy satellites, right? And the Americans have like 40,000 or so starling satellites which may also double up as as surveillance equipment possibly. Right? So that's where the Americans have an unmatched advantage. The Chinese are doing their best to replicate you know uh controlled landing technologies and reusable rocket technologies and they are doing good in this. India is not even part participating in the race. The Chinese are trying to catch up with the US but they are still behind in these matters. But when it comes to power projection, the Americans have an unmatched capability. The Chinese can't even dream of the kind of power projection the Americans have and the kind of the number of vas the Americans have. In terms of nuclear capabilities, the Chinese are far behind. I I suspect possibly. But they once again they're trying their best to narrow the gap. So because of these factors, the Americans significantly have have a significant upper hand in this cold war. Right? And the main issue is that the Chinese are not self-sufficient in terms of energy and the Americans can control the energy flows around the world and that is one of the Achilles heels of China. The China can weaponize its control over the rare earth's exports and you know rare earth magnets and so on. So it has leverage over the US which it has built up yeah overall over the years through hard work unlike India. So the Chinese have some leverage over the US, but the US has way more leverage over China. And overall, the US is still significantly ahead of China in this cold war. But AI could be the the game changer. We'll see about that. Brown Leprechaun says the US couldn't even defeat the Houthis in 7 months. Why do they think they will be able to defeat Iran? Okay, let's go to the map and understand what we are discussing here. where is map is here. So here's the map and we're talking about Yemen. So the Houthis are the Ansarah faction in Yemen and um they oppose the US. They are aligned with Iran. They used to be aligned with Syria but Syria has fallen now and they are also aligned with you could say Lebanon and Hbah. So Syria has fallen. Bashar al-Assad no longer rules Syria. There's an ISIS terrorist who rules Syria now. Um Julani is an American vasal. Uh so that's the situation. Now the the Houthis one going back to the map uh they oppose the US and they have uh reasonably high quality missiles and using that they have from time to time blockaded the straight of Bab al- Mandib this narrow geographical choke point that connects uh the Red Sea with the Gulf of Adan that opens up into the Indian Ocean the western Indian Ocean the so-called Arabian Sea so the Houthis have been able to blockade the strait of Babal Mandib from time to time. And since 2024, the Americans have uh uh they have launched hundreds of air strikes at the Houthis and uh and still the Houthis exist. They haven't been a regime changed out of existence, right? The Houthis are still in control of northern Yemen. At least the Americans haven't been able to uh dislodge them from power and place some somebody else in power, right? Uh the Americans u have also used uh local allies in this uh um this conflict against the Houthis most notably Saudi Arabia and the UAE. in the Saudi sa in the in in the UAE were in this coalition uh which uh was fighting against the Houthis the past 10 10 or so years right uh and still the Houthis are still in power in northern Yemen uh the Americans have launched hundreds of air strikes on them um and they have been able to partially end the blockade of the uh straight of Babal Mand maybe fully also at times but they haven't been able to regentage the Houthis. Now, here's the thing. The Americans never actually seriously tried to uh end the rule of the Houthis. They never actually launched a land invasion. It was just air strikes and uh drone strikes and so on to ensure that the the straight is open. That's it. The Americans have never gone in militarily the way they went into Iraq or something, right? 2023 Iraq, the American invasion of Iraq, the they or the uh 2003, sorry, 2003 invasion of Iraq or the invasion of Afghanistan, the Americans did this sort of thing. The Americans have never attempted in Yemen. So, they haven't really tried to do a regime change in Yemen. they've used their allies like Saudi Arabia and the UAE to to offset the the Houthis in Yemen. Uh and of late there have been you know there have been uh frictions between the Saudis and the and the UAE as well because of differing because of diverging geopolitical objectives which is a different story entirely. So the US hasn't really seriously tried to defeat the Houthis since 2024. They haven't really seriously tried it. they have simply tried to suppress their capabilities so that you know the strait remains open. So that's the deal. Will the so does this indicate the Americans won't be able to defeat Iran? It doesn't indicate that. Defeating Iran will be a monumental task. It will be very difficult and it will be very costly, very expensive, very timeconuming and it it may even lead to setbacks, at least temporary setbacks. But the Americans do have the firepower to defeat Iran if they decide to go allin. It will be much more difficult than the American invasion of Saddam Hussein's Iraq. It will be much more difficult and uh much more expensive, much more timeconuming. But the Americans can do it. If they are serious about it, they can. This is Hersh Kapoor says, "In an era where economies, militaries, and civilian life are deeply dependent on space-based infrastructure, does the weaponization of satellites represent a more immediate and systemic threat to global stability than nuclear weapons? And should international law evolve to treat large-scale satellite attacks as acts equivalent to strategic nuclear aggression? Okay. So, ASAT warfare you're talking about, right? And the weaponization of satellites So when it comes to the modern economies, the world economy, it's all interconnected, right? When it comes to military matters, when it comes to civilian life, all of these domains, all of these are deeply integrated with satellites for a variety of things, right? Communications, we are communicating right now. Much of that depending on where you are will be happening through satellite. We depend on satellites for communications, for navigation, for timing, for militaries depend on satellites for intelligence, for missile warning, for early missile warning systems. We depend on satellites for finance, for logistics and so many things. So if satellites are are are weaponized or satellites are disrupted, you know, then let's say a small number relatively small number of key satellite systems are disrupted in some ways. So this could paralyze banking systems. This could paralyze uh air traffic management systems. It could uh paralyze large parts of the internet. It could also paralyze the command and control structures of various military militaries. Right? So space systems, satellite systems, satellite infrastructure. These are critical infrastructure. Now these are now treated as critical infrastructure and these are fragile systems. Right? So that is the situation. Now what do we mean by weaponized satellites? You're asking about weaponized satellites. Yeah. So, how do you weaponize satellites or how do you bring satellites into the domain of warfare? So, one way of doing that military means is uh ASAT weapons, anti-satellite weapons, you know, ground launched missiles or air launched missiles which will intercept a satellite in orbit and destroy it. So, that's a kinetic ASAT weapon, you know, anti-atellite weapon. So these weapons physically destroy satellites and they create a profusion of debris which is a disaster. Then you also have non-kinetic tools non-kinetic means of disrupting satellites like jamming like spoofing um dazzling or blinding of sensors cyber attacks against against satellites or or cyber attacks against the ground station that controls the satellite or or interfaces with the satellite. this this this sort of thing. These are non-kinetic tools, right? Um and you also have concepts of nuclear armed satellites. I mean, if you watch James Bond movies from the 1980s and 1990s, in the 20th century, there are concepts of nuclear armed satellites. Uh and we've had space-based nuclear detonations. The Americans and the Russians both have u you know tested nuclear weapons in orbits in in orbit in Earth orbit. So if you have a nuclear detonation in orbit today and if you well depending on where the detonation happens it can disable entire constellations of satellites right so clearly um space is now on the verge of being uh weaponized we certainly have the means and the tools for doing that uh so overall the weaponization of satellites is you could say it's a risk multiplier it's a systemic risk multiplier. It is a systemic risk multiplier for nuclear danger. It's not a separate threat. It's not a higher order threat. It's a risk multiplier for nuclear danger. So, if there's an attack on satellite infrastructure, this will obviously disrupt like I said global finance, navigation, communications. It will uh create uh systemic shocks, you know, economic shocks, political shocks. And this will happen without ever crossing the nuclear threshold. Yeah. uh it will make it harder for militaries to monitor what their adversaries are doing. If there are agreements between two nations, maybe arms control agreements. If satellites are taken out of service, out of commission, then you'll not be able to monitor and enforce armed arms control agreements or whatever. So if this happens, if if satellites are taken out, if if space is weaponized, this will increase opacity during time of crisis, the fog of war, like they say, you know, friction and this will have the effect of raising the possibility, the probability that nuclear weapons could be used either in confusion or in panic. So nuclear weapons are still way more dangerous than satellites and the satellite the weaponization of satellites and weaponization of space. So uh so so the weaponization of satellites is still you know not the most dangerous thing in the world. It's it's a it's a risk multiplier. Nuclear weapons remain the most decisive existential danger for human beings. It it they remain the most decisive existential danger for the planet. Um satellites are a separate thing. They are connected but they are different. And today you if you have nuclear weapons deployed in space you know or nuclear operations in space that kind of blurs the line between a space war and a nuclear war. And uh so that's where we are. So I would not say that international law needs to international law can evolve to you know probably you can't really treat large scale satellite attacks as something that's equivalent to strategic nuclear aggression. But the lines are blurring now because it's all all interconnected. So it's a it's a strategic risk multiplier. It's a systemic risk multiplier. Dodasputra says at one point last year you had said that tribalism and civilization are opposites. Okay. I have thought a lot about that statement. You have said that rise in tribalism is a is a sign of decay of civilization. Yeah. Isn't it? Oh, okay. I don't know if you have followed Balaji's work but Balaji has showed with examples how the US is becoming more tribal in terms of red tribe versus blue tribe how they don't marry into each other they don't go to each other's schools they don't want to live in the same city so you have blue cities and red cities right now combining these thoughts is it fair to say that civilization in the US is in particular is in decay and some of the geopolitical churns we are witnessing could be because of that I know that still have phenomenal amount of hard power. So yes, I I I must have said this. I don't remember but I must have said it that uh tribalism is the enemy and the opposite of of civilization. Tribalism. What is tribalism? It it means that within a civilization you have these special interest groups that emerge who have shared interests that are opposite to the interest of a different group. Think about India. Do we have categories of people in India who are who are pitted against each other? Some get some people get more rights and some people are are some people are portrayed as permanent oppressors and some people are permanent victims. Right? So, so some groups have shared interests and other groups have shared interests and these interests are opposing forces. Right? So, this is called tribalism. This is called tribalism. In India, reservation is creating tribalism, isn't it? So tribal so that is going to destroy the civilization if it continues. So tribalism is the enemy of civilization. Tribalism eventually causes the collapse of civilization. I don't know what the government of India is doing. Is the government of India intending to destroy India civilization? That's the question, right? Anyhow, so that's the deal with tribalism. Now um I'm not sure about what Balaji has said but uh the US is indeed becoming more tribal red versus blue right yeah they don't marry among each other they don't go to each other's schools they don't live in the same city and and so on so yeah there is increasing tribalism in the US um the US society you could say is kind of declining because of all these things now so therefore should is it correct to say that civilization is declining and decaying in the US. Well, I have never seen the US as a civilization. Was Rome a civilization? Rome was not a civilization. Rome was an empire. It was the most powerful entity in west of Suez more or less, wasn't it? For the long for like a couple of centuries or two and a half centuries or so. So Rome was not a civilization. It absorbed elements of various civilizations including Greece, Greek civilization, Egyptian civilization and so on. Maybe even Celtic elements, but overall it was an empire. It was not a civilization. The United States is very much like a modernday Rome. It's not a civilization. It's an empire. So I have never seen the US as a civilization. They like to talk about Western civilization, whatever that is. I don't know what western civilization is. West, the west itself in the past 500 years has been an imperialistic force, an imperialistic set of entities. Whether it's the Portuguese or the Spanish or the French or the English and now the Americans, these are imperialistic entities and these are empires, empires that rose and fell. So the US is an imperial entity. It's not a civilization. Um and overall society in the US is in indeed decaying and declining. Right? there's more tribalism. There is all there are all these divisions in the US being exhausted exacerbated by politicians and so on. So yes, we are indeed seeing the slow gradual decline and decay of American society. I agree with that. They still have a phenomenal amount of hard power. You are absolutely right. I agree with you. Uh but I don't see the US as a civilizational entity. I see it as an imperial entity and that's where I differ. Reneigan says in one of your interviews by Adi Achinit you mentioned that the Shans were are mostly Baptists today but they are the ones who brought Vishnu idol to Manipur in the 15th century. The place where the temple is built is called Vishnapur. Bishanpur. Vishnu Bishanpur it used to be called now it's Vishnapur. Okay. And thus came Vishnu Priya. Well the Vishnu Priyas are not really are they really mates? Are they really Manipuris? They claim they are the original ones but I not sure about that at all. Anyhow, uh Bishnob, right? The Shans were known as Pongs by the Maic Kings. In the twilight of Burma as this movie, right? The Australian Austrian lady who married the Shan king was named Mahadevi. Why didn't India capitalize on its roots in the Shan state? Manipur shared borders with Thailand. Yeah, correct. So, going back to the map, where's the map? Here's the map. Uh Shan state, right? Northern Myanm northern Burma. So we're talking about northern Burma here, Shan state and that used to be obviously a Vishnavite region and the kingdom of Manipur was much much larger in the past whereas uh yeah the king of Manipur had captured Manderlay as well at one point in time. Long story uh yeah so it was a much much larger entity Manipur and uh Shan state was a neighboring uh kingdom. And today the people in the earth who live in the earthwan state are mostly Baptist Christians who have been converted to Christianity by American missionaries in the past century or so similar to what happened in India's far east again done by American missionaries with the help of Mr. Neruji um in the past 100 years or so. Um so now coming back to your uh question. Um so the kingdom of Manipur in the in the Shan kingdom had good relations and uh the Shan king brought a Vishnu statue Morty to Manipur in the 15th century and eventually Manipur adopted the path of Vishnuism. The kings did that and eventually the whole of Manipur became Vishnabite synretatized with the original polytheistic culture sanism which is calledism in English. Uh so we had this right Shan state was was Hindu today it's Baptist. So the question at the end you asking is a pertinent question. Why didn't India capitalize on its roots in Shan state? Civilizational and cultural roots in Shan state. Manipur shared a border with Thailand. See if you look at the geography. Okay, let's go back to the map. Shan state was Hindu. Myanmar was Hindu and Buddhist originally Hindu. Thailand was Hindu. Thailand still has lots of Hindu elements. Their kings are still called King Rama of the Chakri dynasty, right? Uh Singapore, Singapore Hindu. Malaysia was used to be Hindu. Indonesia was all Hindu. The Philippines were Hindu. Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos, all were Hindu. You had Hinduism all the way to the Philippines. Tibet was Buddhist. Gandhar was Hindu. We had Indian roots all over the place. Right? So the question is why didn't India capitalize on its civilizational and cultural roots in Shan state? Well, I can give you the example of Tibet. Tibet when India became independent in 1947 was an independent entity. It should have been India's protectorate. Tibet was part of the Indosphere. But what did we do? We handed Tibet on a plate to China. When the Chinese troops started starving because it was so far from China, the government of India sent thousands of tons of rice to the Chinese soldiers. That's how we dug our own grave and ended our civilizational existence in Tibet. After 1947, the governments of India have been hindophobic governments, secular governments. Any anything that has anything to do with money with with Hinduism is anathema. Hinduism evil, Hinduism bad, Hinduism backward, Hinduism regressive. Let's not do have anything to do with Hinduism. That's been the policy of every successive government of India after 1947. Right? So that's why India did not capitalize on its cultural and civilizational roots in Shan state. I mean nations like like Burma, like Thailand would have been very happy to have had India as the protector, the military protector of the region. But India did not want to play the role and that's why the US had to step in. We just opened up the space if we seeded the space to the US. Right? In 1947, India had the most powerful navy in Asia. Do you know that? What on earth did the governments of India do after after 47? I really wonder. So India simply abandoned its children. India switched off its civilizational status. India reduced itself to a nation state. Forget about Shan state. Forget about Thailand. How did India treat the states in the far east, the far eastern regions, Manipur, Nagal and etc. Stepmotherly treatment. Neu opened up the whole place for Christian missionaries, Baptist missionaries and shut the door for every for all Hindu and you know Indic religions. The the the consequence of this is that in a few decades the whole region was civilization was civilizationally destroyed culturally destroyed. The beautiful indigenous culture of Nagaland destroyed much of Manipur destroyed Arunachal it's happening now it's still happening it's not like it's it's from the days of NU it's still happening by the way still happening so India failed to capitalize on its civilizational roots even in in India so this all boils down to a lack of leadership or the or lack of quality leadership It's tragic what India has done to itself and still continues doing real Putin says what's the possibility of Dwal taking over India the way Putin took over Russia okay what is Dwaler's age today must be 80 81 82 let's find out okay must be in the early 80s maybe 82 83 Uh Jit Dal age what's his age? 81 years old. Okay. Uh Vlah Vadimir Putin age in 1999. How old was he? 47. Vladimir Putin was a young man. In political terms he was a young man. 47 is young for a politician. He was a young man when he took over the the reigns of Russia in 1999 47. Ajit Dual sir is 81 years old today. 81. When do you expect he may have the chance to take over? He may be 83 84 85 at the time. Do you want a leader of India who's 85 years old? Mr. Ajit Dual is a great man. He has had a legendary career, an incredible career. Someday the truth of of all his great actions will come out. Maybe in a few decades when it is declassified. That's how great he is. But he is in his 80s now. Do we want leaders who are in their 80s? Isn't it better to have leaders who are much younger? Right? Maybe in their 40s or 50s. Maybe 40s is a little too young perhaps for politics. uh maybe 50s. So I think that may not be a very viable possibility. I'm not sure if Mr. Dwal even wants to take over in that sense. You know, I don't think that is his calling in life. I he would know better than me obviously. I'm just guessing here. But I think it is unlikely. You see, then again, he's not a politician, right? He's not a politician. Do you see Mr. Dwal sitting standing for election and all that campaigning? No man, I'm not sure that is the the the path he would like to take. Amisha Mishra says is the younger Das theory a real thing? So what is this younger Das theory? First of all there is a set of events that actually happened and then there's a theory. So what is the set of events that actually happened? So about 12,900 years before today, there's a sudden onset of cold weather all across the planet. Sudden ice age. Okay. See, let's find out the last glacial minimum. Last glacial minimum. Last glacial maximum. Maximum. The last glacial maximum was about 29 to 19,000 years ago. The coldest most intense phase of the last ice age featuring maximal global icy ice sheet expansion. Glaciers covered about 8% of Earth's surface, 25% of land and so on. The sea levels dropped by 120 m compared to what we have today. The world was significantly colder and so on and so forth. The last glacial maximum was between 29,000 to 19,000 years ago. uh average temperature what was the average temperature in the planet uh 8° Celsius was the average global temperature okay so that is the last glacial maximum now what about the younger younger driest period that's about that's about 12,900 years ago per period okay 12,9 900 to 11,700 years ago about a,000 or 1,300 years it lasted. Okay. Uh average temperature. So the average temperature at that time, what was the average temperature? Okay, it's showing you how much it fell. So in Greenland, the temperature fell by about 10°C. Imagine a drop of 10°C. And the northern hemisphere temperatures dropped by about 3 to 3 to 5° C. So this younger das period was a period of about 1,000 years 1300 years beginning 12,900 years before today where the global temperatures abruptly dropped abruptly sudden drop across the world. Uh maybe in the northern hemisphere where we live most of us it was 3 to 5° C kind of drop in Greenland it was about 10 to 10 to 13 or 15° uh of of drop in temperature. That's massive massive drop of temperature and this la this happened abruptly. It lasted for about 1,000 or 1300 years and then it disappeared abruptly. So for these temperatures fell in a period of of about 50 to 70 to 100 years in just about one century the temperatures dropped that much. Then this period lasted for about 1,000 or 1300 years and then about in about 30 to 50 years the temperatures went back to normal. So that is the younger das period. Now the question so it's it actually did happen. The question is how did it happen? What was the causitative factor or set of causitive factors? That is the question and that's where the controversy arises. So I'm not sure what the officially accepted consensus is as to the causitive factors for the youngest younger dria's cooling of the earth. But there's another theory. The theory is that there was an impact event, maybe an asteroid or a comet that hit the earth or maybe broke into pieces and hit multiple parts of the earth and multiple air bursts and all that and maybe a lot of dust and soot was pushed up into the atmosphere which cooled the planet for about a thousand or so years. That that's that's a theory. That's the younger das impact theory and it's been put forth by people like Graham Hancock. Younger dra impact theory. The question is what evidence do we have that such an impact happened? Maybe a cometary impact or an asteroid impact. Did we have single impact? Do we have multiple impacts? Sometimes comets and asteroids break up and they hit you in multiple places. That sort of thing also happens. Um so do we have any evidence of an impact event? There's this Greenland impact crater that's been discovered recently. So uh green land uh crater younger. Yeah. So it kind of dates to that time. 31 km wide. Hiata crater. Initially suspected blah blah blah. It's okay. It happened 58 million years ago. Oh well that's tragic. It's 58 million million years older than the younger dest thing. Okay. So, I remember seeing this news that there that there's this crater that's been discovered in Greenland that kind of could prove the younger dus impact theory, but now I I didn't look it up until now. So, it's 58 million years old. Well, that's that's sad. So, I'm not sure if there's any evidence that that corroborates this theory, the younger dry impact event theory. So uh most scientists and researchers do not treat this theory very seriously primarily because of a lack of evidence that supports it. But it's still um it's still theoretically possible. So maybe the impact creators are hiding somewhere. Maybe they haven't discovered them or something. That's also a possibility. But in the absence of so the absence of evidence is not evidence of absence. But we need to have evidence before we take a theory. seriously and we don't have it right now. Uh and there are some other pieces of evidence very circumstantial evidence. There is gope a swarm of planets kind of thing. Okay. Goe uh the carvings there. Uh come swarm. Let's see. Ancient carvings carvings on pillar 43 are impacted are interpreted as a record of a devastating comet swarm impact about 10,850 BC younger dest thing. Okay, let's see a pillar 43 and go. What's it look like? So, do we see a swarm of comets? I can see a scorpion. Do I see a swarm of comets? I'm not sure if I see a swarm of comets, but I don't know, maybe some people see that. So, it's it's a very circumstantial, far-fetched kind of thing, but some people interpret that pillar as the as some kind of record of a swarm of comets appearing and impacting the earth and setting of the younger dra period. But clearly, that's just very very circumstantial and very far-fetched. Can't be taken as proof. Okay. Nirmana Shanks says, "What specific economic and political reforms did Den Shaoping introduce to start the rise of modern China?" A relevant question. Very relevant question, important question. What policies did Ding Shopping create? Which did he abolish or modify? And how did these changes transform the Chinese economy and society? What major challenges did he face from within the party, the bureaucracy and society at large? And how did he overcome them to establish the path that led to China's global emergence? Thank you for your attention to the matter. So the amount of questions you've packed into this one comment to answer them satisfactorily and properly it would take me probably like a several hours to go into all of this in detail. So how about I give you like the top three you know policies of Ding Shopping that that that contributed to China's China's rise the rise of modern China. So Ding Shopping comes to power what 1978 when did he come to power? late '7s probably 78 79 Ping when did he uh when when did he come to power power then shopping 1977 okay and he became the paramount leader of China in December 1978 okay so that's when Ding Shaoping uh became the paramount leader of China 1978. So the first thing he did see before 1978, China was a proper communist nation. It was a collectivi collectivized economy. Everything was collectivist in nature. Farming was a collective enterprise. Right? So after Ding Shawing came to power, he dismantled collective farming. Okay? See in collective farming everything was owned by the state. Individuals owned nothing. Families own nothing. They did not own the land. They did not own their own household, their own house. They did not own the produce of the farmland. They own nothing. The state owned everything. They the the farmers the peasants were simply well essentially peasants of slaves who were owned by the Chinese Communist Party. So from the time Deng shaing came to power, he almost immediately dismantled collective farming. He uh gave limited land use rights to individual farmers and their families, right? And they were mandated to deliver a certain kota of of agricultural produce to the state and they were allowed to keep the surplus or even sell the surplus. So that's a transformative reform in China. Okay. So before that everything they produced was had to be given to the state and then they would be given a certain amount of whatever produce to stay alive you know to to survive and that's why we had these horrific things like the the the famines that Mao engineered in his great leap forward in the green revolution and whatn not. So then shopping gave farmers the right to to uh keep the surplus after they delivered the kota to the state and um and the Chinese and then shopping made rural markets legal again. So farmers could set up markets and sell the produce to to whoever wanted to buy it, you know. So and and they could keep the profits, they could keep the money, that sort of thing. So because of this uh this incentivized farmers to grow more and to produce more. So grain output shot up. The income of farmers that also shot up. It rose significantly by the early 1980s. The chronic food shortages that plagued China and and caused the horror famines of of the Maadong era. Those chronic shortages of food, those ended. And over time this this had the effect of creating a large rural purchasing power capability. You know they they could start purchasing things. They could start they could become consumers over time. So uh and because of this farmers were also allowed to diversify into cash crops and activities that were non-farming activities. So this eventually gave rise to uh various kinds of small cottage industries and enterprises. Eventually the whole countryside became gradually industrialized. It absorbed the surplus labor. So this was the first major reform that I can think of from Ding Shopping. Uh the second big reform was the open door policy that Ding Shopping you know implemented. So 1969 China and the USSR almost go to war. The USSR decides to nuke China. The Americans save China. The US then has this they taunt with the Chinese. You know, Nixon and Kissinger come to Beijing and meet Maong and so on. And eventually by the late 1970s, the Chinese under Den Shopping decide to open up their economy gradually very very cautiously like lab experiments. Okay. What lab experiments? Special economic zones, SEZs. And this policy was called the open door policy. So early 80s late 70s early 80s under then shopping China created the first special economic zones like Shenzhen Shenzhen is very famous today right but they had many of these more Xiaamin Shenzhen and so on and in these special economic zones which are like walled off from the rest of the country essentially uh China offered tax breaks and flexible labor rules and significant autonomy to investors to attract FDI foreign direct investment And the objective was to over over time create an export oriented economy. So uh eventually in the mid 80s uh this was extended to multiple port cities. Eventually entire coastal belts became you know sezz and u some border areas like shenzhen right border with Hong Kong. So these parts of China became labs, laboratories for market practices, for tech, for tech transfer, for joint ventures with foreigners and so on. And very rapidly most of the FDI coming into China came into the SZs. Okay. And uh uh so these these special economic zones became hubs for manufacturing for migration from rural areas because people in rural areas were until then farmers they wanted to have a better life. They wanted to have higher incomes. So they would start they started migrating to these special economic zones many of these coastal cities and so on. And eventually you had the rise of consumer culture in China. And obviously you would have inequalities. So the people in these special economic zones became wealthier than the rural Chinese and so on. So it created inequalities in China. But this brought China uh into the global US-led system, the global production networks, the global supply chains and and so on. So that's another big reform of the shopping. Let's do let's do one more one more. The one child policy transformative reform, right? So this was social engineering. Um so then shopping launches all these major reforms right wants to transform the economy but then he says that you know the economy won't do so well unless we restrain population growth. China's population was already in excess of 1 billion or something right at the time. So they needed to shopping decided we have to restrain population growth. Maybe the westerners put that in the in his ears or whatever. So that's why he instituted he instituted the one child policy. The objective was to restrain population growth. The objective was to raise per capita income and per capita resource availability. And these were from Ding Shaing's perspective essential to China's modernization. Obviously, he's gone now and now China is suffering the ill effects of the one child policy, but it is what it is. You know, he saw it as something that was good for China. So, these are some of the reforms that Ding Shaing produced and rapid reforms. uh the rapid rapid reforms had some unintended consequences. There was inflation. There were layoffs in various uh state-run industries. Corruption apparently those became visible. You know, uh there was inequality in income gaps among the population of various parts of the country. Uh eventually some people became unhappy with this. There were as as Chinese people be some Chinese people became more prosperous they started demanding political liberalization democracy. It eventually led to what happened in 1989, nationwide protests in China, but it centered on Tianman Square in Beijing, right? Where students and u various other Chinese citizens demanded uh you know political reform, democracy, accountability, anti-corruption, all that. And obviously then shopping said that was too far that they had gone too far and that's why there was a military crackdown and one party rule was preserved. So that's kind of in a nutshell three of the major reforms that Dingshop did. If I were to go into all the reforms, I would have to read a few books first of all and and explaining all of that would take several hours or maybe a whole semester possibly if I was to do justice to it. So that's kind of the kind of impact then Xiaomi had on China. A transformative figure for sure. He did good, he did bad. Also the one child policy is has in retrospect if you look back from today's perspective it's it's been a disaster for China but uh China wouldn't be where it is today if Den Shaing had not unleashed all those reforms back in the day in the late '7s and early 80s right Amisha says why didn't the Ottoman Empire why didn't the Ottomans assimilate Egypt and other such areas into Turkish culture to what extent was Turkish spoken in the Ottoman Empire So Turkish first of all let us define Turkish. There were various varieties of Turkish. There were various Turkish dialects. So in various parts of what is now Turkey you had various dialects and various forms of Turkish or Turk languages that were spoken. And there was something called Ottoman Turkish which was the Turkish language spoken in the Ottoman court the court language. And that was a mixture of Turic plus Persian plus Arabic all combined together into one new form of the language called Ottoman Turkish which is the origin mostly of today's Turkish language. So that was the Ottoman Turkish language. Now when the Ottomans absorbed all these other territories like Egypt, like Syria, like Iraq, etc. into their empire, they absorbed territories that spoke different languages. So Egypt had been ruled by the Mamblukes from the from the 13th century all the way to the 16th century. It was in the 16th century I believe if I'm not if I'm not mistaken that the Ottomans captured conquered Egypt. Uh Ottoman conquest of Egypt. Ottoman conquest of Egypt 15 something right? 1517 1517 okay so that's a 16th century the Imaml sult it begins uh Mluk sultan of Egypt is beginning 13th century right 13th century okay 1250 to 217 so 13th century right so the Mluk sultanet had thoroughly Islamized and Arabized Egypt so by the time the Ottomans conquered Egypt the Mluk sultan had been in power for about 250 years more than 250 years and Egypt was thoroughly Islamized and Arabized. So the entire society of Egypt spoke Arabic and the leadership structure and the bureaucracy and administrative structure of Egypt was all done. All of it it spoke Arabic and all of it was done in Arabic. So what the Turks did is they did not dismantle the existing existing structures. They simply put a new layer of of governance on top of that and that top level governance was done in the Turkish language. So Turkish became the language of the elites of Egypt and across the Ottoman Empire and they allowed everything else to proceed in whatever languages existed already existed. So in Syria in in Iraq they would have continued with those versions of Arabic. when it comes to uh going going westwards when it came to uh what they called Romelia which is the Balkan region the Balkans where you have uh Serbia etc. They allowed the local languages to continue but all the local people they had to when they interfaced with the Ottoman Empire they had to do that in the Turk uh Turkish Ottoman Turkish language. So during the Ottoman Empire's time there were three major languages essentially in the Ottoman Empire. The language of empire and administration and control and power was Ottoman Turkish. The language of literature was Persian and the language of religion was Arabic. And that's how it was in the Ottoman Empire. The Ottomans never tried to impose their language on the common people. What they insisted on was the religion. So they sought to unify their empire through religion not language and wherever they conquered they imposed the the Islamic religion on the people. You could see the effects of that in in the Balkans also Albania and uh you know Bosnia and so on. That's the legacy of the Ottoman Empire. Um so they and they had so many other subjects you know they had the Armenians who continued speaking Armenian. uh there were the Kurds who continued speaking Kuresh and so on. So the Ottomans were not imperialistic in ter in in in in the in terms of language. They were imperialistic in terms of religion and they were okay with other languages being spoken as long as the language of command and control and administration was Turkey. So that's how it was during the Ottoman Empire and that's why Egypt never became a Turkishspeaking nation. Mohit Kashab says, "What exactly was the 1979 VA incident? While it remains officially unexplained, many argue it was a clandestine nuclear test that confirmed Israel's status as a nuclear power. What's the real story?" Well, it's still officially unexplained. So, what was this Va incident 1979? In the 1970s the Americans set you know launched a some a series of a set of satellites and placed them these satellites in earth orbit. The objective of the satellites was to detect clandestine nuclear tests or noncllandistan nuclear tests. So nuc and these satellites had a bunch of instruments you know gamma ray detectors and so on. It had the satellites had a dete had an instrument called a bang meter. I'm not kidding here. Okay. Okay. Va bang meter. Bang. Actual bang. Bang meter. What's a bang meter? A non-imag radiometer. U objective is to detect atmospheric nuclear detonations and determine the yield of the nuclear weapon and then so on. The bhang meter was invented blah blah blah destruction description silicon photo diode sensors and so on. The name of the detector is a pun which was bestowed upon it by Fred Reigns, one of the scientists working on the project. The name is derived from the Hindi word bhang, a locally grown variety of cannabis which is smoked or drunk drunk. Okay, we know what it is. The joke being that one would have to be high on drugs to believe that the bhang meter detectors would work properly. It's a bang meter, not a bang meter. Okay, so that's the bang meter. Va bang meter and the va incident we have on Wikipedia. So one of the instruments was a bang meter and these satellites were launched to detect nuclear explosions anywhere on the surface of the planet. One of the unintended consequences was that these satellites started detecting things in outer space things called gammaray bursts. The most energetic explosions anywhere in the universe. So this new phenomenon was detected as an unintended consequence by the VA satellites. But that's astrophysics. Coming back to geopolitics in 1979 between the southern tip of Africa, South Africa and Antarctica somewhere between this these two regions one of the VA satellites detected the signature of a nuclear detonation a double flash event. So when a nuclear detonation happens surface you know above atmospheric nuclear explosion happens there's a characteristic double flash. The first flash is like a like a few milliseconds long, very brief and very energetic flash, mostly gamma rays and also visible light, visible photons. And then there's a secondary flash that takes a few maybe a second or multiple seconds. And that's an intensifying glow and that's the secondary flash. That's the characteristic of a of an atmospheric nuclear explosion. This double flash thing. And this wheeler satellite in 1979 in this part of Africa in of the Indian Ocean it detected this characteristic double flash that's a signature of a nuclear blast and it is mostly assumed today that it was an Israeli nuclear test done in cooperation or collaboration with South Africa because South Africa also had a nuclear program of its own which was dismantled um before uh apathide was ended so that the South African nuclear weapons don't end up in the hands of the native population that sort of thing. So that's why the nukes were dismantled and you know given away to the powers that be. Um so Israel also everyone knows has this nuclear program. It's never been officially acknowledged but everyone knows Israel is an undeclared nuclear state nuclear power with maybe 75 to 100 possibly uh nuclear warheads. So if you want to have effective working nuclear war whereas you need to test them and it is said it is believed that Israel conducted three nuclear tests in this possibly in this in this area. What area what region was this? Okay, we'll go to Google this time and say VA incident region. Okay. Uh VA incident 1939. Where did it happen? Let's see. I um I'm say it's somewhere over here. between uh South Africa and Antarctica. Uh do we have a larger thing? Okay, this red dot that's that's kind of where it happened. Double flash near the South African territory of Prince Edward Islands in the Indian Ocean. So that is the VA incident. the real story. We nobody knows the real story, but it is most likely that it was an Israeli nuclear test uh done in collaboration with South Africa most likely. Amisha Mishra says, "How common were Indian, East Indian from the subcontinent that kind of slaves in the US? What role did they play in American society?" Well, there are very few records of I'm not sure if there's any records of Indian origin people who were taken as slaves and they lived in the US. Obviously, the British would have sent some Indians also as slaves to the to the Americas and probably to North America also, but I'm not sure that any records exist. But what's interesting is that there is a record of u of an Indian origin lady uh in New Spain which is Mexico. Okay. The story of Katarina, the San Juan. So, let's go to Google and let's see the story of Katarina. Katarina Desan Huan. Okay. She was known as China Pablana was an a okay it's Asian now Indianborn woman who was enslaved and brought to New Spain by the Spanish East Indies and became revered later as a saint in New Mexico. The true origin is unclear but her original name according to legend was Mera. Mera and she belonged to a noble family from India. She was born in6005. He died in 1688 and you have uh various stories. Okay. So an Indian noble woman was sold into slavery and became a spiritual icon. She eventually became a Christian saint according to u this the legend and this was the the house of this this lady this Indian origin lady. So she eventually became a sp a Christian saint and uh she used to wear a sari and she may have worn a different kind of dress also a blouse and a pettic coat and that perhaps influenced the dress that you know Mexican ladies wear possibly that's an interesting story from from the Americas you know this this Indian lady who was enslaved and taken there and eventually she would have been forced possibly converted to Christianity and then she became a Christian saint and ended up being the inspiration for a dress worn by Mexican ladies until the 19th century. Katarina the son Juan that's what was called her original name birth name was most likely Mera Indian origin lady enslaved and transported to the Americas. Okay, real says how did marriages between royalties transform alliances? Does this way of transforming relations with a with a foreign religion is it still relevant? So let's take some examples. Um the Gupta Vakatak age you had the Gupta Empire and you had the Vakatak dynasty kingdom in southern India region of India and uh one of the great kings of the Gupta Empire was Chundra Gupta II of Samudra Gupta. Okay. So, Samudra Gupta's son was Chandra Gupta II. Chundra Gupta II had a daughter named Prabhawati Gupta. And Prabhawati Gupta, she married uh the king of the Vakatak. I forget the name of the king. Rudra something, right? Prahawati Gupta's husband. Prabhawati Gupta husband Rudra Rudra the second of the Vakat dynasty. So Prabhawati Gupta who is the daughter of the Gupta emperor Chundra Chundra Gupta II great Gupta emperor okay whose empire was all the way from the Chakshu axis river in central Asia all the way to various parts of India huge empire his daughter Prahawadi Gupta marries Rudras the second Rudras II of this of the of the of the Vakatak dynasty. Now she marries the guy and uh within a few years he dies and by this time Prabhawadi Gupta has two young sons and one of them has to be the future king of the Vakataks right but they're too young so she has to be the regent and she has to be the def factor ruler until her sons are of age so her husband dies young she becomes a young widow she has got two young children and her father obviously is concerned about his daughter's well-being and all that. Her father, the emperor Chandra Gupti. So, Chandra Gupta, her father visits her, does makes the journey all the way from his capital partly probably whatever the capital was at the time and comes and meets his daughter, offers her some consolation and solace and whatever and maybe starts a geopolitical alliance. So what happens is that prahavati Gupta then slowly becomes the de facto ruler of the vakataks and this makes the vakatak kingdom a de facto vasal of the kupta empire. So the marriage alliance transformed the whole geopolitical equation. Right? That's one example. Another example is the marriage that is said to have happened between Chandra Gupta Chandra Gupta Moria and allegedly the marriage happened between him and the daughter of Salucas Nicator whatever her name was right so some historians say this never happened some say it happened I'm not sure what it is but in case the marriage happened it was the it is what what sealed the alliance between India and Greece India and the solucids so uh Alexander died after his defeat in India he died in Babylon and then his generals fought each other the war of the diadokai diadokai whatever it's called and then Salucus negator one his best general comes out victorious and and starts this lucid empire and then he comes eastward all over again and says hi to India by by starting this short war with India not a serious war and then the two you know chandopa moria and salucas nik probably meet and they shake hands and chandupta accept Sucus's daughter in marriage and then these two are no longer enemies they are relatives and that starts this long lasting alliance of at least two three generations between India and Greece India and the solucid empire and as and he tend gives Salucas negator a gift of 500 war elephants with which he constructs a massive empire and he never fights India after that so that's another example of an alliance being created through a marriage And there are many other examples. The marriage between uh who was the husband of Katherine of Braganza. Okay, let's let's let's see this. Katherine of Bragza, the Portuguese princess. Katherine of Braanza. She married um Charles II of England. And the dowy, what was the dowy? among other things the port of Bombay as it was called at the time that's how the British acquired Bombay of course it's now Mumbai at that time it was called Bombaya Bombaya good Bay so yeah that's a significant event in the British occupation of India many such examples can be you know examined says Why did civilizations like the Roman Empire, India, and China have such big problems with invading tribes? Big civilizations are by definition prosperous, wealthy. They have large quantities of resources, large amounts of land, large numbers of people, and lots of wealth. And when you are a rag tag invading barbarian, what do you seek? You seek plunder. You seek wealth, you seek slaves, you seek prestige. So that's why these big civilizations and empires, they draw invaders like honey draws what? Bears, bees, whatever that honey draws, right? So one good example is the Hept Heptalite Empire. The Heptalites, we called them the Schwah Hunas, the white horns. And the hepalites were attempting to invade India at the same time when their their people the Huns were invading Rome. The Huns and the Heeptalites were essentially the same people. The Sh the descendants of the Shyu Shaunu who came out of what is now Mongolia about 2,500 BC and set off a whole domino effect. Eventually you had the heptoite empire uh which which ruled a very large part of central Asia and they kept on knocking on India's door and our emperor scandupta kept on repelling them over and over and over again after he died the doors broke down and the heptalites came down south conquered Kashmir conquered western India Gandhar conquered Punjab subindu Gujarat and they set up these hundik kingdoms and they had some good kings and some very nasty kings. Uh there there is Torana, there is Mihir. Tormana was okay. Mhir was very nasty allegedly at least the Buddhists were not fans of Mhirkul. Uh and it is Mihir who's supposed to have been the destructor of the Chashila possibly. Um so India why why did the Hoons keep on attempting to invade India? Because India was so large, so prosperous, they wanted to rule India. Much better climate, so much wealth. Similarly, the Huns also did the same thing to Rome. Attela the Horn, right? He crossed the Alps by elephant. So, it's all about And when it comes to China, well, China, the Mongols obviously invaded China, but they did not invade China for wealth. They invaded China to teach China a lesson, right? Ching Khan. So, different reasons, but mainly is plunder. Jingis Khan was never motivated by that. But the Huns and whoever else, the Ostrogs and the Vigotss and whoever else, they were all motivated by blunder. Okay, that brings me to the end of the questions I have selected. Let's see what we have going on the in the live chat. Okay. Okay, we have live chat going on. I can see a lot of activity and I can I can see 29 super chats. So, let us see what we have in the super chats. Football Bakt says what are your thoughts on the warrior diet mentioned in the Dhanurvea a high protein dairy and low carb diet? Well, I haven't studied the Danurvea. It's a part of it's a component a sub sub section of the atvid if I'm not mistaken and I am not 100% clear on the diet that mentioned or may or may may be mentioned in that what I do recall reading is that it emphasized eating mansa which is meat but obviously the clean mana means you know fowl that's in that is birds birds like like chicken obviously chicken is an Indian bird and sheep and goats not obviously cows or pigs so eat meat there was an emphasis on ghee and and milk and curd which is obviously dairy and there was emphasis on on on on legumes pulses like like like chana hippies and and mung beans what else and I suppose vegetables as well sounds like a very yamna kind of diet. The yamna had this sort of diet. Meat and dairy mostly, right? Sounds like that sort of diet if I recall correctly. So that that obviously makes sense. If you are warriors, if you are physically active, you need a lot of protein. You need you need u good sources of of uh calories. You eat ghee, you eat milk, I mean you consume milk, you eat ghee um and you consume pulses and all. It's going to give you protein, carbohydrates, and uh meat also obviously lots of protein and fat as well. And ghee is also, you know, high quality fat. So that's that's a great diet. You know, it's it's essentially kind of like a ketogenic diet. Obviously, if you eat pulses, the keto part goes out of the window, but still it's it's kind of a hybrid diet. Hybrid as in Indian and Yamna kind of diet. Yeah. All right. Gora TV says, "I have Hello, hello. I have uploaded a video on my channel regarding US's plan to contain China and I've also included a snippet of your analysis in it. I'd really appreciate it if you could watch it and share your feedback on it." Okay. Um, I won't be able to do it right now, but uh, I'll put that on my to-do list. I'll check out your channel. I'll watch your video and I'll I could leave a comment uh possibly. Um okay. So I'll not I'll not do it right now, but okay. Thank you for letting me know and I will look into this. All right. And I'm glad that you're doing something interesting and something creative in this in this manner. Uh great job for taking the initiative and I will certainly check it out. Good job. The strummer is the strummer says, "Can't the entire world hypothetically come together to thought thw thought US dominance and bullying?" Well, hypothetically anything is possible. Can't Indians all unite together as one culture, one civilization, one people? Well, hypothetically we can. But look at India today. Forget about the entire world. We Indians are fighting among each other, right? So hypothetically, theoretically, everything is possible. But the real world is a messy place. It's complicated and all these theoretical things and hypothetical things don't really work out properly in the real world. The real world has a lot of entropy and mess, right? So all of this will happen if you have the right leadership. Under the light leadership, under the right leadership, this can happen. But you will need monumental leadership for for that to happen. Even for India to come together and to unite as one, you will need monumental leadership. Leadership that comes around maybe in once in 500 years. Yeah. Uh Chandra Gupta Mory comes one once in 500 years. Kaneshka comes once in 500 years. You know Samudra Gupta once in 500 years. Rajendra Chola once in 500 years once in 500 years that's the kind of leadership we need right now for India to come together today India today is a nation divided right so theoretically hypothetically this can happen but in the real world it's very difficult explore world says why neuroscience can't heal bipolar disorder I am not aware of why it can't bipolar disorder it's it's about yeah I'm not very familiar with this uh neuroscience. So neuroscience is is a science of the brain, right? Neurosurgery and all that. Neuroscience, the understanding of the brain, the different parts of the brain and what what you know what parts of the body they control and what they give rise to and so on. And and bipolar disorder is this disorder in which people become hyperactive or something is it hyperactive people and we don't quite know how this how the mechanism works. So yeah, because neuroscience has has limitations, lots of limitations. Um, the brain is a very poorly understood organ. We understand the heart very well. We understand the lungs very well, the kidneys, the liver, the spleen, the the the eyes, the retina, the cornea, all of that we understand pretty well. The brain is very poorly understood. Very enigmatic organ. It's the center of everything, isn't it? So it's very poorly understood and that's why probably neuroscience still can't uh heal the bipolar disorder most likely. Okay. Sam Kumar says what will the world look like if China replaces the USA? Well, we shall all be speaking the different language. Yes, we will all be speaking different language. We speak Chinese. Chinese best language. I'm sorry for that. Uh what will the world look like if China replaces the US? Well, it'll be aentric world. Everybody the the the center of the universe will become Beijing. Beijing uh What's up China will say then I'm sorry Xiinping and uh it will it will be a Chinese version of the world. Yeah everything will be in Chinese. Explore world says will Salman become God after Galvin movie release? I have no idea sir. I have no idea. I don't watch Bollywood movies. So I can't even remember the last Salman Khan movie I watched. So must be decades that I've seen seen one of those decades. I'm sure I have no idea. That is not my my cup of tea. I'm sorry. Pratik Shinoi says, "I refuse to believe there's any country without corruption. Yet some countries still managed to succeed despite it." Why is that? See, there is no society without crime. Is there a single society on the planet where there is zero crime? No. It's impossible. Why is that the case? Because a certain percentage of the human population has criminal tendencies. Maybe one out of 100,000, maybe whatever the the statistical number is, a certain small percentage of the population has such tendencies. And that's why in any population you're going to have some crime. Of course, the crime rates will vary. In India, we have very less crime despite having almost no police. Yeah. I mean, in in India, the police, what do they do? They don't have machine guns, right? They have lis at best. Go to some other European countries, you'll see police armed to the teeth. And still the crime levels are so much higher. So, it depends on the culture, society and all, but every population has a certain amount of crime. Similarly, every population has a certain amount of corruption. So, it's it's natural. But some countries deal with crime and corruption better than other countries, right? So, why do some countries still manage to succeed despite it? Because the leadership despises corruption and they do everything to stamp it out. And if they know they can't stamp it out, but they can control it. They can keep it under control and they can keep on detecting and destroying it. They know that new corruption will crop up here and there. But they will again deal with it. But in some countries hypothetically corruption is the system itself and everybody is is sharing the pie in some countries wherever they may be. Maybe some African countries or whatever. No, I suppose. So that's the deal. The chimp the chimplo guy says biggest fans. Thank you so much sir. uh if two countries example Russia and India trade in a certain currency example rupee to reduce dependency over the dollar then how will they manage the exchange rate? How will they manage the exchange rate? I suppose they will just go with the existing exchange rates in the world right now. See every both the ruble and the rupee are free floating currencies right? So whatever the current international exchange rate is they will go with that. That's how it will be done. They will not in the past it was different. In the past India and and and and the USSR had decided what the exchange rate would be. It was a mutually decided thing. Today it's not the case. Today it's free floating. So each currency exact knows exactly where it stands visa with the other in the international market. So that's how they manage the exchange rate. Sam the gamer says MIG 21 was good. India failed on spares versus China's J7. You know what? The MIG2 was a fantastic aircraft. It had to be retired because of factors like metal fatigue and whatnot. The the the airframes were very old 1950s 1960s60s probably airframes. Right? My question is why didn't India produce brand new MiG 21s in India with brand new airframes and brand new engines? I'm sure the the Soviets gave us the blueprints. We simply didn't care for doing these things. We could have reverse engineered the engines and whatnot of the Mig 21 and then made small iterative improvements and come up with our own enhanced version of the MIG 2021 and started our own families of jet fighters. We even had the Marut. So the Mig21 was an outstanding fighter plane. It was the best fighter plane of its time. The Americans were frightened of it. Even until the 2010s and 2020s, it was still a pretty potent fighter plane, right? So, it is India's failure. India's lack of vision, lack of ambition, lack of leadership. We could have taken that jet forward. We could have improved upon it. We could have built our own increasingly improved versions and iterations of the Mig 21. We simply didn't care to do it. India. I don't know what sort of leadership and everything we have. I just don't know what to say really. Lakshman Tahiliani says, "Can we vaselize our neighbors? Regime change other means?" No, we are simply not powerful enough. Like I explained a couple of times at least in this live stream, we can't. We aren't powerful enough. The US is way more powerful than India in the subcontinent itself. And it's see the US is more powerful than China. in China's backyard. That's why China can't take Taiwan. China can't vilize Taiwan because the US is too powerful in China's backyard. Russia has to fight Ukraine because the US is powerful in Russia's own backyard. The the US is the superpower, right? That's why we can't vaselize our neighbors. Godliness says US hedgemony is on the rise. World except for China to some extent including India is a is following the US design. All the talks of ddollarization, multipolar world seem immature and Trump still has three years ddollarization. Uh yeah, multipolarity what what other master stroke vishwaguru superpower all the stuff. Yeah. See the US is the ultimate hedgeim. It is the only superpower. Now we are seeing very clearly the limitations of Chinese power and Russian power. Talking about Indian power, the US has never been as powerful as it it is right now. And you can see that they are running rough shot over the western hemisphere and twisting the arms of various nations across the world outside of the western hemisphere. They're arm twisting India right now with with respect to the economic deal with respect to Russian oil and so many other things. They are they are squeezing China. They're cutting off China's sources of energy, aren't they? Russia is the one nation that is a hard retaliator and Russia is the one standing up to the US. China is playing the economic game and the resource game, but China is not standing up to the US militarily, right? The ddollarization and all. Well, eventually the world will move on to the dollar. That will happen, but it's not some master stroke that is already pre-planned 20 years in advance and all that nonsense. Okay. So let's be mature. Let's be realistic. Let's live in the real world. Let's talk stop talking about vishwaguru and master stroke and all that. Okay. I am very optimistic about India despite all the problems we face. I it is likely that India may become a vasal in the next 5 years but hopefully not. The likelihood is higher than 50%. But hopefully not. So let's be optimistic and hopefully India prevails. Let's see. But let's be realistic and not let's not talk about master strokes and god knows what else all the time or ever godliness says based on your critical evaluation of the current geopolitical dynamics. What all historical events you feel will repeat themselves in the future. All historical events will repeat. Okay. I mean all classes or or all categories of historical events will repeat over and over again but maybe with the advancements in technology the the geopolitical repercussions and ramifications will be much more violent. So what kind of historical events happen? We have the rise and fall of empires. When an empire falls, it's chaos. It's chaos for decades or even a couple of centuries, right? uh when you also have things like the susides trap where you have an existing hegemonic power which is faced with the pro prospect of a rising hegemonic power war is inevitable so that's what we are seeing right now in the world we are seeing the thusid trap being managed by the US and China the war is happening but it's a geoeconomic war right now it's not a military war China can't stand up to the US no chance so all these things will play out over and over again. There are various kinds of you know rivalries that happen. So all the events that that have happened in the past will happen over and over again in the current geopolitical scenario the in the future scenarios as well in the context of the technologies of the time. Sam the gamer says Ukraine war frozen. Is Russia isolated? Ukraine war is kind of a war of attrition right now. A frozen conflict, long war scenario. You know these these terms I have used so many times because of the way things are going. Um is Russia isolated? Well, Russia has it depends on China. China also depends on Russia more now increasingly. Uh Russia is significantly isolated but not entirely isolated. A lot will depend on India's approach. Now India is under increasing American pressure to stop buying Russian oil. If that happens if India bends the knee in from that perspective in that in that particular scenario then Russia will get a little more isolated and a little more dependent on China. China is also getting isolated. So the Americans are trying to bring Russia and China together and then the great great master stroke game plan is to offer Russia way out of the Ukraine war. But the condition is stop selling oil to China. So that's where we're going possibly. Sana Tani Dwanch says are gourjashatrias are gourj and gjur and kusans related. I suppose some gurj are chhatrias. Today the guruja people they exist on both sides of the India Pakistan border. In the Pakistani side there are gurj muslims. On the Indian side there are Gurjar and Gujar Hindus and the Guruja people gave gave rise to Gujarat as well. Are the gujars and the Kushans related? Possibly. I mean there are no Kushans today but millions of people in India will have Kushan ancestry. Little bit little bit. So possibly Gujarat and Kushans may be related. We're not quite sure. The Kushans eventually just merged into the Indian population. assimilated into the Indian population just like the Yavanas and the the Shakas the Skithians right and the Hunas afterwards all these uh late entrance into India they all just harmoniously assimilated into Indian society so it's possible that there are millions maybe tens maybe hundreds of millions of people in India who have Kushan ancestry yavana ancestryan ancestry huna ancestry little bit little bit but you can't say who will So uh can't say for sure if the Gujars are direct descendants of of Kushans or not. Can't say for sure. Kishant Bordoy says happy Valentine's Day to everyone. All right, sir. Happy Valentine's Day to you as well. Stick life says USD isn't assetbacked, but neither are most currencies. Any nation can print money out of thin air within its own territory. What's your opinion? Well, you can do that, but that has immediate repercussions on your economy. If you simply print a whole bunch of money out of thin air, it's going to cause and and and you put that money into circulation, it's going to cause immediate inflation. Immediate inflation. The value of a currency goes down. You don't want that. You don't want that, right? Anybody can do that, but nobody is stupid enough to do that. The Americans do it, but they do it in a way that that puts all the owners and pressure on the rest of the world. The rest of the world pays for the money that Americans print for themselves. They have rigged the game, the Americans, right? And that's why everyone wants to move away from the dollar slowly, gradually, quietly, still whatever. So the US dollar isn't assetbacked. It is nuclear weapons backed and military backed. And that is a very valuable backing to have. Other currencies, what backing do they have? Right. Um today there's no currency that is pegged to the price of gold. The ruble was kind of for a while after 2022. Uh but no no um currency is actually peg pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pe pegged to the price of gold today. I mean that would make it a very valuable currency. It would make it a proxy for gold but it's not the case. So the point is any nation can do this but it will be devastating for their economy. That's why nations don't do that. Sagni Kachara says, "Your views on Nikil Gupta pleading guilty for Kalistthani panun murder plot in the US. Is it a defeat for the US? How will this impact India US relations?" Uh, yet to be seen. I haven't really analyzed this new development. Nikil Gupta some some guy um has plead guilty for conspiring to murder this uh American terrorist panon, right? Gur Patran Singh Panon. Um is it a defeat for the US? Is it a bad thing for India? I'm not sure at this point in time. I have not examined the situation. And uh who is this Nikil Gupta by the way? I'm not even sure who he is exactly. So yeah, it's it's it's it's a emerging story, developing story. So maybe day after tomorrow when we do the next live stream, I may be better informed about it. Right now I'm not really sure. Uh Yuk says, "Is India's AI summit AI impact summit good? Is it worth going?" I am not sure. I mean I hear that all the top players are coming right. So I suppose it will be worth going if you are in the field of AI to understand what's happening what where the world is going and what India's uh relevance in the world of AI is going to be. If if this affects you if you are part of the thing if you if this is your domain your territory your field then it makes sense for for you to go go there. Yeah. IPK1s says sir nothing just wanted to say sir all right sir thank you all right h really miss really now miss patel says what if US vasals are secretly biting time too they must loathe being under the thumb also realizing today's realities are grim for India in it you see let's say you are a US vasal it means you are a nation let's say as a European nation Okay. And you are a US vasal. Do does that nation loathe being under the US thumb? If a nation is a US vasal, it means their leadership is completely aligned with the US which means that their leadership has incentives to keep being on the US side because it it puts money in their pockets. So they will not loathe being under the thumb. When it comes to the population of the nation, they they may not even know that there is something called vasalhood. They may even not know that the US actually controls their nation. There are various ways of keeping people oblivious to these matters. For example, Japan. Most people in Japan have no understanding of the fact that Japan is a US vasal and under US permanent military occupation. They think it's an agreement between the two nations and the Americans are are they have 130 military bases in Japan to safeguard Japan. That's what they may believe and they may have been told in the education system that Japan is an evil nation with an evil culture and that's why Japan must never militarize. They may actually believe this and they may think that the Americans are the great civiliz today that the British came to India to civilize us. Right? So most nations are not even aware of these matters. Uh yeah, realizing today's realities are grim for India. Well, not terribly grim but yeah times are tough but hey it is what it is. We'll deal with it right let us not be discouraged. Miss Patel Ray Narayan Singh says I am a GC general general category person and blackbilled by what's happening with us but it feels feels good that some like me Ajit barti de talks etc have Indian spirits still thanks in love we must never give up uh what's happening isn't isn't the right thing clearly you know I have always had from the first ask lie I I've always had the same message, a message of unity. We Indians must unite. But there are forces in India that seek to divide us by creating this these divisions. You know, you know what they say, a permanent solution to a temporary problem becomes a permanent problem. And sometimes people try to create solutions to problems that don't even exist. And this entire matter of cast and all will annihilate cast right no you want to perpetuate cast. So there is a big problem with our politicians and uh it's a big issue. They seek to divide India further clearly and that's very unfortunate and we need to rise above this. You see the problem is that a lot of these divisions have been created over over the centuries and it has created this situation in India where you have different classes or categories of people who have differing interests. A number of people will have shared interests which will be which will be you know diametrically opposite in some cases to the shared interests of a different group of people. If you are a great leader, you have to ensure that you engineer a situation where everybody has the same interests instead of dividing the nation further. So that's kind of where we are today. This is this is why I keep saying India is still deeply deeply colonized. The entire system is a colonial system and the system will strengthen itself against us against our civilization and that's where we are stuck right now in India and that's what we all have to push back against push back in a civilized legal manner. So um let us not be uh let's let's stay optimistic I would say. Okay. Okay, dark side of the moon says you say AIT is fake. Uh Arian Arian invasion theory is fake. I am a techie beginner in this field. I want to research myself. What steps, fields, papers, data did you follow to reach to the conclusion. I'll give you my article I wrote in 2016 2017. You can start from there. I've got given all the sources, resources, right? Yan invasion myth Java. Uh sorry. Okay. So you can go to this medium article. Okay, just search for the Arian invasion myth Abijit Cha. That's it. All all you have to search for. So it is an article I wrote in May May 14th, 2017 and it's a pretty long article in which I've gone into the entire thing. I've put out all the evidence. Okay, obviously this is a 9-year-old article. So some of the things may need updation, but it still is very very relevant and valid. And I have given a bunch of references as well. Okay, a bunch of references. You can check out those references. There are links and references and yeah, you can start from this and then you can take your own journey wherever the rabbit hole uh leads you. All right, sir. Dark side of the moon. All the best. I'm glad that you are interested in this in this field. You're a techie. So you you you may have uh technical knowledge scientific uh in a scientific bent of mind that will help you understand this better. All right sir all the best. Vicki Khana says why ironically many Hindus on X trads bureaucratic announce like like Iran of ayati. If Dharma people plus military plus bureaucrats plus anon plus common people come together, can they bring revolution and system like Iran? Um do a lot of Indians like Kame is Iran? I I don't know about that. If dharmic people in military and bureaucrats and anons and common people come together. Listen for all kinds of people to come together you need leadership really really strong leadership because otherwise people have their own interests right to bring people together takes uncommon leadership to show them a path in which uniting is the better option and having shared interest is a better option. It's not like You know like 75 cats will not voluntarily come together right somebody has to bring them together Indians are like cats Indians are also like sheep I mean Indians have this superp position of cat sheep thing yeah so Indians Hindus especially they simply won't unite that's very cat-like behavior cats will never move in herds cats are always solitary creatures right but Indians and Hindus also have this sheeplike behavior. So, Hindus are a super superp position of cats and sheep. But anyway, that's a that's a segue into something else. Um, yeah, Dharmic people see Dharmic people have their own interests. Military people have a different set of interests. The interest of the nation poss hopefully. Bureaucrats have a different set of interests. Anons, well, they are anonymous. We don't know who they are. Common people, well, common people, how do you define common people? So all these different groups of people, sets of people have possibly different interests. Some of these may intersect, many of these may not inter intersect. So how do you bring them together? You need high quality leadership for that to happen. Where is that leadership? That's the question. Okay. ICMBB says, how has Paris maintained some autonomy unlike UK? Paris has maintained some autonomy. Oh yeah, Paris. Okay. How has France maintained some autonomy from the US unlike the UK? Well, first of all, France is not under US military occupation. Unlike most other European nations, France isn't. Secondly, France has its own indigenous nuclear deterrent which is and the nuclear warheads that France has are indigenous. They are made by France and they are mated to Frenchmade missiles, ICM, ICBMs, right? Third, the delivery systems, the submarines are also French-based are also French, indigenous. The French have their own fighter planes, their own um their own jet engines, their own aircraft carriers. Everything is indigenous. Because of these reasons, the French have autonomy. They're qu they have a quasa independent foreign policy. Not entirely independent but quasa independent right that's the reason why because they have they are atman that's why angad gal says do you think deep chopra and Stephen hawking were involved in those cruel things and why is America rejecting Indian vizak because I see so India hate okay um look Deepak Chopra seems to be an absolute hypocrite a scum of a person clearly right I mean the kind of emails sent to Jeffrey Epstein. I would not even want to read them here. Which clearly indicates that he was involved. He was he was neck deep in all kinds of murky activities. And the murky activities on Epstein island can only mean one thing, right? Disgusting, monstrous behavior. So yeah, probably Chopra Deepak Chopra was involved in these matters. He portrays himself as a spiritual guru. uh peddling um dismantled and digested Hinduism, Hindu spirituality to the Americans while being a Christian himself. So Deepak Chopra scummy person Stephen Hawking I I don't know about him. Was he also involved in cruel stuff? I mean he was not capable of doing cruel stuff but who knows who knows I don't know physically he was incapable because he was paralyzed but then he was there and he seemed to be pleased apparently. So I have no idea man really why is America rejecting Indian visa? I'm not sure America is re rejecting Indian visas. It's it's it's difficult for Indians to get American visas but I don't see blanket rejections happening. I think wait times are very long and so on but u yeah it's it's um I don't see a policy of rejecting Indian visas. For example they banned Pakistanis and Bangladeshes from getting American visas but not Indians. So it's not quite the case. India hate. Yeah. When you grow as a nation, when you rise as as a nation, you're going to have hate. Of course. Soldier boy says, "Was the Datlo of Pass incident USSR experiment or what was it?" Uh we don't know what it was. Huge mystery. Diatlo of Pass incident. You know this this a group of hikers that went into the this forest in the winter was frozen all over, snowing everywhere. and they went on this on this excursion in the hills or whatever in the in the forest for days and then they disappeared and then their bodies were discovered in in the tents all frozen and all I don't know some had massive injuries and they all look scared and frightened and some looked like they had fallen from the sky or something. So we don't know what happened. Nobody knows maybe UFOs maybe aliens maybe maybe military experiment we don't know still a big mystery and they made movies about that I think with aliens or whatever. So that's in the 1960s or something like long ago the atlas incident USSR Vicki Khana says in Pakistan there are the the majority are GC Muslims general category Muslims Rajputs Jats Jats Jats Cindis Kayasts Brahmans amazing to observe but why Mujaher's general categories migrated when heart money legacy invested in UP Delhi and bond with Hindu general category I I'm I don't know why these muhajes migrated there. Maybe they thought that they're getting a nation for their own religion and they don't want to live with Hindus. I suppose maybe. Yeah. Um obviously these people who migrated to Pakistan would have left behind their homes and lands and whatnot. You know, wherever up they live, wherever. Why did they move there? I I'm pretty sure it's mainly religious reasons. Mainly religious reasons. Maybe Jana was was able to inspire them all to leave everything behind and move to this new country, new land, new artificial temporary country. Um in Pakistan the majority are are the majority uh general category Muslims, Rajputs, Jads, um Brahmans, a lot of these Pakistani military folks are converted Rajputs. Well, if you're converted, you are no longer a Rajput. By the way, to be a to be a Rajput, you need to have a kulvi. If you're converted, you no longer have one. So, you can't be called a Rajput anymore, I suppose. And same with Brahmans and whoever else, right? If you no longer worship, I mean, continue your your your traditions, then you are no longer part of the original uh whatever categories you were part of, I suppose. But whatever, the Pakistanis are still proud of their their pre-Islamic heritage, Rajut, whatever. Come on, man. Uh so I'm not sure why they migrated. Most likely would have been religious reasons. Agam Senpai says in the 2026 interim frame India cuts tariffs to 0% while US keeps 18%. China maintains strict reciprocity. Does this asymmetry risk over sovereignty potential vasal route or a calculated trade-off? See clearly the tra the the agreement this framework interim framework is not an equal um balanced framework clearly the US has the upper hand but so does the US with every other partner if you look at um okay let's let's let's try and see this okay um what tariffs has US imposed on imposed on on South Korea, Japan. Um, what about France, uh, Germany, Germany, uh, what about Indonesia? Let's see what tariffs. So, um, this is from when? This is from a long time ago, August 25. So, okay, this is obviously not recent. So, this is okay. So, it's not recent. Do we have something 2026 overview? Okay. Trump tariff tracker. So, let's see. Uh, this is not okay. Afghanistan 15%, Algeria 30%, Angola 15%, Argentina 10% baseline. Well, well, well. Bangladesh 20%. Bolivia 15, Bosnia 30, Botswana 15, Brazil 10 40%. Uh, BRICS 10%, Brunai 25, Cambodia 19%, Cameroon 15%, Canada, uh, Fentinel Trans Shipment. Oh, huge on Canada. Uh, China 34%, Fentinel 10%, all kinds of other things as well. uh Denmark 10 + 25 or 10 or 25, Ecuador 10%, El Salvador 10%, small European Unions additional threatened 50%, alcohol 200% and so on. So as you can see this is a this is a litany of of arm twisting over all these nations. Iraq 35%, Israel 15%, Italy uh to be determined. Indonesia 19% Japanif okay Japan is a vasal 15% Kazakan 25% so as you can see as you can see nowhere do you see equal treatment nowhere do you see actual reciprocity the US is the most powerful economic entity in the world and they will do whatever they want there's nothing other nations can do so they are now asking to pay for the privilege to the American markets you can't expect strict reciprocity with a nation like the Yes, the world has changed. The days of 3 to 5% UF US tariffs are gone, long gone. So this is not something that uh that uh risks our sovereignty. This is not something that can potentially make India wasal. This is simply a recognition of the fact that we have an unequal inequalation which is simply a fact. Okay? So it's it's fine. It's not an issue. I know a lot of people are crying about this and complaining about this, but let's be realistic. No other nation has proper that sort of balanced relationship with the US. It's unequal every time. Uh Suraj Kandel says any enterprise in India capable of making a jet engine. I'm not I don't know. I suppose the the the new partnership we have with Safa the French manufacturer will give us a jet engine. I suppose hopefully DRDO can make jet engines but not the ones not powerful enough for the for for full scale fighter planes good enough for drones and so on. So yeah that's where we are. Okay. Amisha says in history did most people just not know their age. I suppose it depends on the context. If you were living in an established advanced civilization maybe India maybe Egypt maybe Mesopotamia maybe China. I suppose most people would have known their age, right? If you lived in in a civilization where you had advanced timekeeping systems and advanced calendars like in India, I think most and and where you had be high levels of prosperity and education, I suppose most people would have known their age. But if you were if you belong to the hept hepilit kingdom, heptite the huna kingdom, most h nomads would perhaps not know their age. I suppose if you were a Viking warrior, maybe you would not know your age. If you were a Roman citizen in Rome, I suppose you would know your age. If you were in Egyptian citizen, unless you were a slave, you probably would know your age. So, it depends on the context and all. Yeah. Nurak Singh says, "Is the new Bangladesh government beneficial for India or is it no or if not is Rorow failed again?" by what row failed again. What roof again? Bangladesh is now East Pakistan. Bangladesh is ruled and controlled by the US whether you realize it or not. The election that happened in Bangladesh was not a free and fair election. The most prominent political party, the Awami League was not allowed to contest the election. It's a rigged election. And if this new guy has won Tariq Raman has won, it means he has been allowed to win by the US and he's going to be beneficial for the US. I don't see this equation changing much. Okay. And it's not raw failed again. It's not the case at all. The draw has failed. It is simply uh the recognition of the fact that the US is more powerful than India even in the subcontinent. It is just a just a fact of life. Giora TV says India is replacing MIG 21s with pages mirages and MIG 29s with Rafas and possibly Sukoy 30 with Suko 57 in the future. What about Jaguars in is the world in general dumping ground attack fighters? I'm not sure. I'm not sure. Um the Sukoy 30s will last a long time uh at least a couple of couple of decades. uh if we do go for the Sukoy 57 eventually we could use the existing Sukoy 30 production lines or assembly lines to produce the Sukoy 57s in India possibly depending on the size of the agreement we we reach with Russia in case we are going to let's say hypothetically we need 200 Suko 57s in that case we should set up production lines in India so we could use the existing Sukoy 30 infrastructure for that yeah uh MIG21s are being replaced with pages. Yeah, Mirage is in Mig 29ths with Rafals. I think the Miragees still have a few years in them. Mig 29ths too maybe a decade at least. So it's not like we are now going to decommission the Miragees and Mig 29s and get the Rafals. No, we're going to operate all these aircraft together because we have a significant shortfall of the numbers of fighter planes we need to have, we ought to have, right? So mid29s definitely are being replaced with the theas if we can produce the you can't produce the fighter planes without jet engines. The Americans are not supplying jet engines or they're supplying like three engines a year, right? They're choking off India's pages assembly lines, manufacturing lines, the Americans deliberately, they want Pakistan to become more powerful than India in terms of air force uh strength. Um yeah, I don't know about jaguars. Is the world in general dumping ground attack fighters? I am not sure about that. Jaguars, I don't know what the situation is. Are we dumping the jaguars? I'm not sure we are. How many jaguars do we have? I I don't think they're dumping the Jaguars. We will continue to operate those as well. Deepakati says from my previous question, changed username from the chimplok guy is was difficult. Okay, actually I wanted to know about exchange rates will be connected to the US dollar eventually. Look, the entire global system is connected to the US dollar, right? And every currency which is free floating has a relative exchange rate with respect to the dollar and every other currency. So it's kind of in a in a in an in a mathematical equilibrium. So uh your exchange rate depends on your relationship with the dollar as well as your relationship with the ruble. So if you if let's say a currency has the exchange rate of 10 to1 versus dollar which means $1 is 10 units of your currency and let's say the ruble has an exchange rate of 20 rubles to this US dollar. then I suppose your currency one unit will be equal to two rubles right that that's how it works relatively um so yes the exchange rates will indeed be connected to the US dollar but the but if two countries are are are transacting their business without the US dollar then the US dollar will not be involved even if the currencies are connected in terms of exchange rates with the But the transaction is going to bypass the use which is what ideally our nations want. Skylight says you may want to check out old compass an Indian history channel. I believe he made a one to one scale of an indust. Okay I shall. Interesting. I shall I shall check it out. Thank you very much for the recommendation. Old compass. Old compass. Okay. Thank you. Vihung Kuran says was H Marut actually a decent indigenous fighter jet had India been in a better position today if that project mature matured further the H Marut was an outstanding fighter jet it was designed by the German designer Kurt Tank okay let's let's see who Kurt Tank was Kurt Kurt Tank sorry Kurt Tank So he was a German aeronautical engineer and test pilot. He led the design development at Faulk Wolf from 1931 to 45. He created several luvaf aircraft like the wolf fighter jet outstanding fighter plane uh the wolf and so on. So he was an outstanding designer. Okay. And then he designed the Marut, the H Marut. Uh and the Marut was an outstanding fighter plane. Okay. The only issue the Marut faced was that it had underpowered jet engines which was not a problem with the plane. It was a problem with the engine. If India had acquired high powered jet engines, the the Marut would have been probably one of the best fighter planes in the world. and Indian politicians killed off the Marut. If we had continued the Marut, if we had iteratively improved upon it, we would have been one of the foremost uh nations with fighter planes today. We would have had possibly multiple families of fighter planes. So, our politicians killed off this fantastic fighter jet program. Fantastic, isn't it? Uh RB368 thank you very much indeed sir. Thank you. A Rahul says similarities between ancient canadite religion and Norse Vic Hinduism Bal Bilsbub is in no absolutely not. Can Catholics called bal devil devil during crusades the see bal the word bal means lord or master. So you can have multiple gods with the epithet of Bal. Epithet of Bal. You had Bal Ammon. Bal something else as well. Okay. So Bal Hammon. Okay. Bal Hammon which means Lord Hammon. Lord Hammon. Uh Bal Bal something else as well. Bal Hadad Bal Hadad. So you have multiple gods with the epithet epithet of Bal. Okay? It's not one s single god and the bil zebub is bal zebub isn't it the lord of the flies or whatever it is. How can that sort of god be Indra? There's no similarity between there's no connection between the canonite religion and indo-uropean religions. Nothing whatsoever. Sam the gamer says why endless delays it's impacting Awax refueler. I have no idea. I'm not aware of the situation. Sorry. D Kat says Stephven Hawkings paralysis did not impact every body part. I equate Kumar Roy says, "Did you see the Bal statue burning in Iran?" Really? I'm not aware of this. Let me see quickly. A bow statue burning in what is this? Burned in Iran. Really? When did this happen? Okay. I was not aware of this. And uh Okay. Interesting. Are the Iranians saying that Bal is a Israeli god? Not sure about that, but okay. Uh RB368 says, "Any thoughts on Cecil Roads? Roots is secret global secret roundt organizations peddling globalist propaganda since the early 20th century. I'm not aware of this. Look, um Cecil Roads was this uh the guy who essentially colonized Africa on behalf of the British, right? There are these roads scholarships that are still offered in his name. Uh so yeah I'm aware of that much and he's one of the great evil colonizers of Africa. We know that slave owner and all that slave trader and u yeah but I'm not aware of the global secret roundt organizations peddling globalist propaganda since the earliest 20th century. I'm not aware of that. Sorry. Pratip Kumar Roy says about Freemasons. I recently found out a masonic temple near my house. It was built in the 1870s. about Freemasons. Once again, I'm not very very very very uh very aware of of their history kind of begins in obscurity. They seem to be connected possibly with the Knights Templar and uh they have been persecuted at times. I think Napoleon or the French banned Freemasons. Freemasonry is banned in some countries in the world. It's quite open in other countries. Uh what are their objectives? Who are they? What are their origins? I am not 100% sure about that. I've not really studied the history. Um there's a masonic temple near your house. Well, that's interesting. 1870s. Okay. Interesting. I believe that multiple famous prominent Indians were Freemasons. You can look up their names and there exist freemason uh grand lodges or whatever masonic temples or whatever in India as well today. So yeah that much I know but I don't I'm not aware of their origin story and history and their agenda and objectives. Soldier boy says who were deenisans? Why did they go extinct? Why do naza mummies have three fingers which is intact found eggs inside their abdomen like reptiles? I'm not sure about the Nazca mummies. Um whether it's a hoax, whether it's a real thing, looks pretty real from whatever little I've seen about that. The tridactyl creatures. Why do they have three fingers? I have no idea why they have three three fingers. Were they native to Earth or were they aliens who died on Earth or if they are real or are they fantastic fabricated hoaxes? I'm not sure about that. Uh who are the Deniso ones? They were one of the subspecies of of human beings. So we are homo sapiens. Our cousins were homo neianderthalisanderthalis and we also had homo denisova or whatever it's called. So that was another closely related subspecies of human beings. And today homo sapiens depending on where you are some homo sapiens some some humans today have some denisovven ancestry which means that we intermixed interbred with them. Some some homo sapiens did that. Uh who were they? They lived in urasia. Um the first ever evidence of them was found in Denisova cave in Russia in Siberia I believe. Uh some evidence of them fossil evidence has been found in Tibet. So clearly these people lived in Eurasia. There were some species of humans our cousins and they eventually died out. I don't know why they went extinct. Maybe did we do that? I mean it is said that we made the Neanderthalss extinct. Maybe even Denisans. Maybe we are very aggressive as a species. I don't know. Could be Pratep Kumar Roy says about Happy Science Japan. They have sent us in India too. That's another cult is it I've heard. I'm not sure. Happy Science. I don't know if it's a cult or it's just a nice thing but centers in India. Okay. Interesting. Uh Pratip Roy says I found out that most of the reformists like Ram Mohandro, Viveandanda Motilu Dehu were freemasons. Are we controlled by them? Sar joined politics. Yeah, I'm not sure about the Ram Moy but Vive Khan and Muti Mutilu were definitely free Freemasons. At least that's what the website claims. Okay. Um India India freemasons. So Grand Lodge of India whatever that is and if you go there if you open their website I hope it opens someday. And what is this? Okay, so there is Viveandanda and who else have been great Freemasons of India? I don't know who these fantastic gentlemen are but okay. Uh who are the historical Indian Freemasons? Do we have something? Do we have a history about us? Grand past Grandmasters etc etc. Oh Shri Ratan Tata Ji Tata Rady Kipling. Who else? Who else? Who else? Swami Viveananda. Who else? Let's go. Uh Motilal Naru Jar. So some of these people as you can see u yeah pretty prominent Indians. I'm not sure about uh Mr. Ram Muhan Roy but definitely Swami Vivean and the Motilu were free business at least that's what the website claims. Are we controlled by them? I have no idea. Join politics. Thank you very much for the suggestion sir. T2 says thoughts on thought on Bahaj painted gray wear preodiscript I'm not sure about that something that some news coming out of Egypt is that what you're referring to I haven't seen that yet so I too early for me to comment says will India have to will India have to surrender shina now why just because some new guy comes to power in Dhaka doesn't mean surrender really no we don't have to do that don't worry about that pratipar says about new world order I don't know about renew world order sir I don't know about that they say it's a conspiracy theory I mean if you yeah so I don't know about that T2 says your thoughts on Iran's fellow cemetery 3000 BC I don't know about this either and I am reluctant to open that search query on Google. So I shall not do that here. I I'm not aware of this. I'll check it out. Sounds interesting perhaps. Not sure. Anyway, thank you. Okay, so that brings me to the end of today's live stream. All the questions are done. Thank you very much as always. Great fun. Okay, we have one more super chat. Uh, Freemasonry was founded by Francis Bacon, English guy. Francis Bacon. Well, I've heard stories of of some kind of connection with the the Knights Templar, you know, back from the days of the Crusades. That's almost like 900 years ago, thousand years ago. Um, the Knights Templar were eventually all executed, right? And they left something there was some connection apparently, which may or may not be true. Okay. Vehav Sharma has a question. How Arctic TH aggravates climate concerns and ignite geopolitical competition? how India strengthens its digital fraud resilience. I don't know about digital fraud resilience but the Arctic Thalate becomes warmer then more ice across the world will melt. So let's say the the global temperature rises by an average of 2°C. So it means that some amount of the ice which is not the extreme pools will melt because of rising temperatures right and some of that will happen in the arctic regions. That's what's that is what's believed and we know that glaciers are receding and so on. So the arctic regions of the planet which two were always you know icebound throughout the year they will now start opening up for uh for shipping and uh commercial traffic and exploitation of resources and all that. So what that could do is it could uh raise uh sea levels globally potentially swallow up countries like the Maldives and and you know cause problems in Bangladesh and because of this this Arctic region opens up for shipping and commercial exploitation there will be competition in that region for resources between major nations like Russia, the US and China. China is a near Arctic nation and so on. So that's how it could ignite geopolitical competition. Okay. Pratipar Roy says about film Eyes Wide Shut 1999. The film showed some secret masonic rituals. The director Stanley Cubri died a few days later. Warner Brothers Productions. I have heard of this story. Stanley Cub Cubri did die a few days after he finished the movie. And uh the movie I think I saw it back in the day pretty Yeah. And um yeah, all those masks and stuff and some rituals, maybe masonic rituals. Um at that time it was a much younger me. I did not understand much about it. Maybe if I see it now again I may have a different perspective on it but I have not seen it in a long long time. So yeah, it's about secret societies and secret rituals and whatnot. Some kind of underlying message as well. Yes, you're right. Tom Cruz, Nikol Kidman who were I suppose married at the time. Okay, so that brings me to the final conclusion of this live stream. Thank you very much everybody. Thank you for the questions. I look forward to seeing you on Monday 8:00 p.m. for the next live stream. It was supposed to be tomorrow but tomorrow there's a cricket match India Pakistan. Nobody will turn up for my live stream. So I'm doing it on Monday 8:00 p.m. I look forward to seeing you there at that time. Take care everybody. Thank you so much for your viewership for your questions. Keep asking questions. Keep learning. Keep raising your standards. I shall see you in the next one very soon. Take care. Good night. Good day. Bye-bye for now.