[Music] I am yours Namaste brothers, sisters, friends, I am very welcome to all of you in this first ever Hindi live stream. It feels great to be present with you all. Let's see who all are present with us. Pritam Piyush Janga Singh Chauhan, Maint Yuvraj Garg Vineet Yashveer today. Harbinjar, Doctor Dharamraj and Rajesh Harsh Indranil, Slice Par Maint Pritpal, Rohan Gupta, Ashish Mahi, Gaurav Riya, Jio, Gai Ne Boond Tan Me Jatin Shikhar, Saurabh Shivaay Shatru, Jo Yoga N X Abhishek Ching, Vaishakh Jainul, Devanshu Harshada Dasha Vaishakh, Rajesh and many more. It feels great to see you all. Thank you very much for giving us here. As you know, this is a Hindi podcast, Hindi live streaming. So today I will answer all the questions in Hindi. You can ask me questions in any language. You can ask me something in English too, I will answer your questions in Hindi. So, what are the answers, what are the questions? Let's see what we will talk about today. Today we will talk about history, we will talk about science, politics, you decide.  Ask questions and I'll answer. Let's see what we ask. Let's ask a somewhat interesting question. So, Ashish's question is, how can Tibet be freed from China? Fixed Deposit: Tibet is currently under Chinese occupation. It has been under Chinese occupation since around 1955, and their hold is very strong. China has a very strong hold on Tibet. And today the situation is that the majority of Chinese people in Tibet have become a minority. So many Huns have come and settled in the Chinese territory that Tibet has become a minority as well. The entire administration is in Chinese, everything, the entire government machinery is in Chinese. China also has many military bases in Tibet. So, all these things mean that China's hold on the Home Little Butte is very strong. So, initially, it is very difficult to free Tibet from China. This can only happen when the Chinese Communist Party itself becomes independent and their hold on China weakens. If this situation arises, Tibet will be freed from China.  It might be possible to free it and if India wants peace in the northern border and western border then we will have to free Italy somehow or the other. For this we need patience, we need patience, we will have to work slowly and patiently or else our own strength, India's economic strength and military strength, both of them will have to be strengthened a lot more, it will have to be strengthened at least double-triple times than it is today, only then we can free Italy because if our economy and our military strength increases a lot, only then we will be able to compete with China, so this is a very long term plan, I think it will take at least 20 years to complete this entire work, Vicky, such big works are not done in a week or two, they are not done in 12 years, it takes time, so we need to do this and only then perhaps we will be able to free Italy from China. Activate history, it has always been a part of our Greater India, our yesterday, which is a cultural and Shakespearean option.  Follow-up has always been a very important part of it, so we need to bring it back, so for that we will have to make ourselves stronger first. Next question is, we have looted and adjusted. Let me ask some questions, how to update, did you see a possibility of India and travelling together in the future? Cooperation can happen with anyone, we can do it, we can operate with our full force even with our opposing enemies, in some things like for example, climate change is being talked about, it has become very important these days on a global scale, so India and China can definitely operate on this thing, we can work together and on some other things also, we can operate a lot in world trade and there are some other things too, we can do next, in international relations, in international relations, where we and China can work together, so these are a lot of possibilities, so this is definitely related to India and Channel Saath Mein Kaam Kare In The Future that Rohan Gupta asks how did the tradition of arranged marriages come from, this is related to the times of Islamic invasions, so where did this tradition of arranged marriages come from, it is a very old tradition, friend, according to me and as old as the history of India is, I think this is a custom of arranged marriages and in the olden times, as you know, there used to be Swayamvar in which girls could choose their husbands on their own, Meena, so this was our condition and there were other arranged marriages as well and this is only traditional of India, it has been there all over the world, foreign friends, but if you go to European royalty, if you talk about British royalty, then if you go some 5 years back, then who was one, oh, there was a British King, then there was this Prince who was married to Orange, caffeine number knowledge, when there were opportunities princesses of some Spanish princesses, maybe I should reach the road that maybe the universe should be like this and what did they get in dowry, they got in dowry  The tradition of Mumbai, which is clear from Ireland, this thing, this custom, this tradition is a very old tradition and it has been the tradition of India only, it is the tradition of the whole world in which arranged marriages used to happen, so this tradition is a tradition of time rather than just a method of Islamic invasion, it is a very old tradition, who has done proper detailed rough research on it, it will not seem like a historical story, but if we read our old texts, if you talk about Mahabharata, Ramayana, then I think arranged marriages used to happen in them too, it is old, very old, but Shravan and there is nothing regressive in it, this backwaters, nothing, I think in that, creatures were also given 24 years as far as whom you would like to marry, Swayamvar is a big part of it and this other arranged marriage is also a part, so everything was different in our history itself, MP3 Lut Yash asks, wide in various fields, to come India before the 11th century and would be seen after the 11th century, this era of unity  Problem Kshipra, simple things, if you talk about unity, absolutely, if you look before the 10th century, there used to be very united, very powerful emperors and Maharajas, for example, if we talk about Guptas, you will see that their empire was very big and full and very powerful, for this no one had anything to invest in India at all, after that what happened after Gupta Pawan Gupta was that India became politically correct, more small kings came into existence and they all used to fight among themselves, they did not have much power, so outsiders could come and take advantage of this thing and hence gradually after the 10th, 11th, 12th century, they slowly progressed in India and they definitely captured little by little territory and eventfully, a lot of Northern India and West India came under their control, we are talking about lighter invaders and Islamic invaders, so it is absolutely a matter of bread politically, if your country is yours  If the geographical region is united then it becomes very difficult for outsiders to attack and occupy it. If we talk about today, even today India is not that united. So much is talked about only petrol and diesel. Right now the situation is such that there are about 2030 different small countries in India, each one of which is going separately in its own deductions. So this is also such a situation. India's area is such a big country, such a big geography of the size of a subcontinent, that if it has to remain safe, then political unity and a very strong political alternative is very important for it. Without that, India's future is a bit weak. For me, it is all about unity. If there is no unity, then we will lose to others. A. Lut and Priyansh ask what happened in the Battle of Haldighati between Maharana Pratap and Babar. Akbar talks to Babar Khan on English subject. Akbar himself was not present in Akbar's army. Akbar's proxies were there, but what is this battle?  Haldighati was 1 hour long, but if we look at its contents, why it was so? At that time, Akbar was the Jodha, he had control over the whole of India, and at that time, he defeated many Rajputs and brought them all into his camp. So, these Rajput kings and Maharajas worked for Akbar and considered Akbar as their ideal. Maharana Pratap was one of them. He refused to accept Akbar as his own, but he said that he would always remain independent and no one would rule over him. This became a problem for Akbar's expansion plans. So, what Akbar did was that he dispatched some Rajputs to either kill Maharana Pratap or defeat him so that Akbar could take his territory into his own hands. Akbar's political and military objective was to either remove Maharana Pratap or kill him and take his territory. Maharana Pratap's political and military objective was to stop Akbar from winning and remain independent himself.  These were two different objectives. Now, the Battle of Haldighati was shot in a day for 6-7 hours using a 6-hour battery. Historians are unable to agree on who won. Some people say that Akbar won, some people say that it was a draw; no one won. So how do we decide what happened? How to decide is very simple. Who was successful in achieving his objective? Did Akbar destroy Maharana Pratap's army? Did Akbar make Maharana Pratap surrender? Did Akbar kill Maharana Pratap? No, he could not do all these things. Maharana Pratap remained independent even after this meeting. He did not accept Akbar as his Maharaja. He could not force Maharana Pratap to accept Akbar as his Maharaja and hand over his secretary to Akbar. So, if we talk about these two different objectives, Maharana Pratap accomplished his objective and Akbar failed in his objective. So, if we examine this further, Maharana Pratap  He was successful and Akbar was unsuccessful, so I absolutely believe, Babu, my Babu, my energy, it is very clear that the outcome of this battery was in favor of Maharana Pratap and not Akbar, it is in favor of the Mughal, these are simple things and nothing else, so let's see some more questions, Ad Lut Rajvardhan asks, what are your views on Dayanand, Dayanand Saraswati and Arya Samaj, see, I have not studied Dayanand Saraswati and Arya Samaj much, but as much as I know, I understand that Dayanand Saraswati is very much against idol worship, he had broken many idols in Varanasi, but what is the problem with these people, is idol worship a bad thing, why do they want to reform Hinduism, all these people, look at the ship, you want to call Hindu sea as if it is a Hindu evil which needs to be reported, hey, remind yourself brother, I do not understand that these people are against idol worship, does idol worship kill anyone, does idol worship cause any harm to anyone  Hey everyone has their own style of worship to follow religion some people worship idols what is wrong in that brother so this Dayanand Saraswati is a reformer who wanted to stop idol worship why brother what is the need you don't do it if you like it why do you post others some break idols of others so this is criminal reformative lake some people say we have to call Hinduism we have to do good why do we have to do it brother use our other religions which are reliance not religion go and remind the religion if you want to report someone why do you keep Ekta Samaj here so sir this is my problem I have not read so much about Dayanand Saraswati or Arya Samaj but all this is from the reformative movement and their thing is always that stop idol worship you should not do it on the phone so I like it why do you follow others so this is what I have to say I get so angry about it there is MP3 of 9th May they ask that we are powerful is India in nuclear war  There has never been an affair with Indians. Only one country has done it on nuclear war till date, which is the United States of America. China attacked Japan for 2 minutes and many people died in that. After that, no country has indulged in nuclear war. But after India, India definitely comes close to doing nuclear war. If you look at the official figures available in the West, if you look at Western publications like Foreign Policy Magazine, Foreign Affairs Magazine, there are many recent job vacancies in them, it is said that India has around 120 nuclear weapons. These people say so and India also has delivery systems like ballistic missiles, short-term ballistic missiles, medium-term ballistic missiles, long-range ballistic missiles, short-range medium-range ballistic missiles, intercontinental range ballistic missiles, India already has 20 of them and this is continuously developing and good missiles are being made and they are becoming an example. And submarine launched missiles are also available. India has short-range missiles, perhaps medium-range missiles and the British might also be developing them, they might have already developed them. All these things are not done transparently, so India has a very good capacity for nuclear power. India also has bombers. If you talk about the multi-role fighter plane, then this is the profile which can deliver nuclear weapons. From this point on the BrahMos missile, India has a very good capability related to nuclear trade. If we talk about three different delivery mechanisms, ballistic missiles, senior deliveries, now clearly nuclear weapons, and submarines, nuclear weapons. India has the entire nuclear trade. India also has nuclear submarines. So, India is quite capable in this nuclear war field, it is quite powerful, and this is a very good thing for us. This is a very good deterrent for India, which will tell our enemies that you cannot cross certain 11 specific red lines of India. Also, if you close that red light, anything can happen. So, India is quite powerful. Air India's technology is quite good. We have cruise missiles like Swift and it is very auspicious. But sonic cruise missiles, supersonic missiles and some more cruise missiles are being developed. And perhaps we can also deposit nuclear missiles or nuclear weapons from satellites. Perhaps now, Sir, we have a lot of options. So, India is quite powerful in nuclear war. Let's ask some more questions. Let's take the project and ask whether Akhand like Nepal's trust was present. Battery plays some role in your parents' can have. Look, not every country can play geopolitics. Every country has some important significance in politics and what its importance is depends on its geographical location. If you talk about Nepal, it is a country sandwiched between India and Tibet. And right now, you know that Tibet is under the occupation of China. So, it means that there is a very important match between India and China.  It is a symbolic location, so due to its geographical location, Nepal plays a very important role as a buffer state. Earlier, there used to be an active buffer state between India and China, but our great Prime Minister Mr. Nehru did nothing to stop Tibet from being handed over to China, so now Nepal is a buffer state between India and China, and right now China is trying to make a lot of inroads in Nepal. As you know, it keeps coming in the news a lot. Right now, the Communist Party is ruling in Nepal. Communism and the Communist Party play a very important role in Nepali politics as well. So, due to all these things, Nepal has become a very important country in the contest of the dynamics of India and China. Even though it is a small country, it has a very important role in politics. Anand Tripathi asks, there is an Indian, a theist considered Hindu. Sir, see, if you talk about the philosophy of Hinduism, then the Nine Makers School is a successful institution, it comes under Hinduism, many come under it, due to which it  There is Charvaka, Gautam Jain, Bodh, Doctrine, Yoga, Numbers, Vidhansabha, and perhaps one more, I have been examined at this time, but there are many schools of thought in it. Then there is the Jain school of thought, in which God is not considered as a mother. Bodh school of thought also has the role of God, but the role of mother is taken by the mother. If you talk about Mimansa, then there is no creator god in it, but there is the law of karma in it, which keeps the entire universe running autonomously. And if you talk about cyclone, then there is the full thick lipstick school of art, in this there is nothing about God, Karma, but still all these school certificates come under Hinduism. Hinduism is a part of our old religious belief, all these and in this, if they are theists, then it is four bike, that is, Jains or people with aircraft, all these people, while fighting this war, they believe in God, but still it comes under the Hindu category, that is why India  There are lies in them. Those who are atheists are also Hindus. There is nothing like Hinduism, if you adopt it then I will not consider you a Hindu like it happens in foreign relations. There is nothing like this in Hinduism. There is nothing like this in Hinduism. Even if you do not believe in God, you can still live a religious lifestyle. That is why only Indians consider it completely Hindu. One important reason for the loot was BJP. Make India and Hindu Rashtra. Now only these two BJPs can answer this question. If you look at the pattern of the last seven-eight years of BJP, they completely believe in our Constitution. The BJP government believes in our conditions. They also consider the conditions as a holy book. They also believe in it in many other circles and Mahatma Gandhi is worshipped a lot. So if you look at the pattern of the last seven-eight years, it does not seem that they want to make India a Hindu Rashtra very soon. But there can be reasons for this also. It is a very complete thing if Win India a Hindu Rashtra.  If we declare it, then who knows what other countries might do. Other countries, like America and the West, are completely anti- Hindu. So, if your long-term objective is to make India a Hindu nation, then in the short term you will have to remain silent about it. This is also a possibility. But if you ask me immediately if BJP will make India a Hindu nation, then immediately in the next 10-20 years, it does not seem possible at all. If they have a long-term plan, they will keep that plan very secret and when the time comes, then they will probably reveal it. I think this is how the leadership works, this is how the politics works. It was looted, looted. You are one who asks why did not take socialism obscene and Indian socialism. Look at socialism, it is quite balanced, soft Marxism in the eyes. And if you have to select it, if you have to make it successful, then first of all you need a prosperous society, which is not only a prosperous society, it is a very weak society and a very rough society. But socialism cannot work. If you look at any country which has been a security school, for example, if you look at China, which was a very complete country like India used to be, recently then China has not created its economic system through social science. They said that it is complete from the past and through state and centralized planning and they have achieved economic growth. If you compare Vietnam, they have also added centralized economy, centralized plant economy and the state control and there is a lot of capitalism in it. These countries where there is socialism, they are not completely socialism and they are also centrally planned and all those societies were already prosperous. For this, it seems that it has been successful. Europe was already very prosperous and now they have implemented socialist policies there, so it seems that it is not something that was already prosperous. Now India  And India was very broken after 1947. Whatever wealth Britain had to extract, it took it all out of India. So if India had to stand on its feet again, then India needed not socialism but strong central plant economics and Indian economy and capitalist hybrid system. This was needed and Nehruji introduced Fabian socialism. Nehruvian rate of growth of 2% every year. That is why Indian socialism is spread because of Nehruji and nothing else. If he had used any other method, perhaps the story of India's growth would have been different. But friend Ugi wanted to experiment with this socialism on India, so he did that. Now see what the result was. Once Soham asks, how do you think about this era, this influential and present as it was in the past century and works its rule in current geopolitics. Today, there is not much influence there. They also call themselves Great Britain, the United Kingdom, but there is nothing left there.  But whatever the solar child is, what it is, is their economy and they have built their career on the pretext of the money they have looted from the whole world, especially from India, in the last two-three years, so that much greatness is left with them, London is the hub of global finance, all the global corporations have their offices there and is a very important part of the global financial system, so after so much time, child, you do not have any other influence, they essentially have a state of the US like Australia, New Zealand, it is also a tax base, when all the English speaking countries are from the US and today and among them, Uttar Pradesh, the biggest among them, does not have any special military, they have nuclear weapons, but for the delivery system of nuclear weapons, from all their missiles, they used to have Polaris, which is in my house today and now there will be some more missiles, probably within an inch of them and the man who is there Deployment is done as per what America says, in this song it is essential that it has become just an American puppet and nothing else and these people talk big in politics but they do not have any significant rules so today UK's biggest role in the world is that it is an American puppet and nothing else, till the time the loot is not washed away, let me take some more questions, okay again the same and put one more, that is the trillions looted by JDU, you have hundreds of years, India UK has almost the same GDP growth, meanwhile the question is that if you look at the calculations of this, then their estimate is that UK looted approximately 4.5 trillion dollars worth of money from India, according to today's user rates, so where did all this money go, I do know about this, the founders of this university, on the one hand they were East India Company officials, they returned a lot of money to India and He invested that money in the United States. A lot of it went into university foundations. If you follow the money trail, you'll see that some 455 trillion dollars that was looted from India has been distributed all over the Western world, not just in the UK. Now, some of their lead families, which have been there since the time of the East India Company, are settled in many different countries, and that money has also been distributed in different places. So, the entire Western world benefited from all this money looted from India, especially your valid families and your close friends, but a lot of it went into infrastructure, universities, palaces, and many different financial systems were crushed. So, the maturity money that was looted from India has been distributed all over the Western world. It's quite good. USB is today. So, if we attack the East India Company and if we defeat them, and I also have the East.  We will get very little money back which Arun had stolen. This is so much money that we have forgotten because all the money has been stashed in different places. So this is the matter of trillions of rupees and it will be pristine in different places. If we press it back then it will take a lot of time and we do not have any such solution to take it back to the office. So the solution for us is that we have to work a lot on our cars again, we have to work very hard and bring ourselves back to the big economic position which we had in the historical role. We have to do the same with our hard work. Right now Varun Singh asks that if there is any political, social and cultural situation in the Middle East, then oil was never found there and this is a very good question and today the Middle-East is a very important and very prosperous geographical region of the world and one of its simple reasons is that so much oil is found there and because of that oil, they have become so prosperous.  They have so much money that if this oil had not been found there, they would have had no status at all today. They would have been a very backward and ancient region of the world. If oil had not been found there, simple things. Even now, many different new sources of oil have emerged and intense. Today, the United States has become the world's largest oil producer. The development of waste oil filters is declining. So, for this, they are slowly going into crisis. Their monopoly on oil will be lost and even some other sources of energy will also emerge. I will also make it sustainable and from there, 600-800 sources. So, for this, these people are now going into crisis mode and their entire lifestyle, their entire way of life, is going to change completely in some 10, 20, 30 years. If oil had not been found there, then it would have been a very backward and ancient region of the world. It is simple. It was looted and washed away. Why are you asking Sir?  Please tell us about the origin of Bengalis, it is related to returning springs, very nice to see from here, Bengalis are also from India, so I mean, Bengal, which we call Bengal today, its original name was Vanga Pradesh, from Vyang Vyang it became Baghban and from Bengal it became Bengal, the British named this place Bengal, so its original name was Vanga Pradesh and perhaps a few thousand years ago it was Rang Pradesh, perhaps and as you know that in Mahabharata, Karna became the Maharaja of Anga Pradesh, so from a very old history, Bengal belongs to a very old, very old history and the origin is the same as the original of India, the Bengalis are its region, the people of Bengal are not a different race or there is nothing different like that, India is these people and Arjun of India is very very old, if you talk about your animated version, then some of the male patrilineal lineages of India, you people, the male lineages of India are about 60 thousand years old and if you talk about the male lineages, matrilineal  Onion juice is definitely coming from 6570, so India is the oldest arthropod analysis and tough vaccine and some countries phase ago when Homo sapiens was notified and gradually they went to the East and established their base in all these pertinents in India, so the first point of sale counters is in India itself and everyone went away from India and migrated to other places, but the people who were in India definitely stayed in India, so this is the original genetic of India and Junaid and Bengali people are also a part of it, so in short, these are the Bengali people and in which is the region of India, these people are nothing but swastikas and it is possible to reverse all the happiness depends upon India, all the best one thousand years and take India back to its most glorious taste, one drops a peak, it is not possible to reverse anything more, whatever has happened has happened and there must be some reason for it, and this is the reason  It was said that India was not so united, so we have to learn from whatever happened in history, we have to learn this lesson from it and apply it so that such things do not happen again in the future. Whatever happened was very bad in the last 1000 years, we cannot reverse it, it is not possible to reverse it, but we can redevelop ourselves, we can unify ourselves again, we have to develop ourselves again, we have to impress science and technology and again our culture, our civilization has to be brought to that level again in the next 10, 20, 50 years and again India will become glorious, defeated and extraordinary if we all work together on this, then the right word is mystery, how old is it compared to India's situation, then rulers of various appearances in times of knowledge and way teaching pit, firstly if we write history then it is some 5,000 years old, history is 5,000 years old, now if we talk about India then  It is at least 10,000 years old. If you read about the Indus Valley sites, for example, it is at least nine to ten thousand years old. And many discover it is very clear that India has the oldest history. If we talk about any classical civilization, we will talk about Egypt, we will talk about Sapsid Baby, after China and if we talk about India, then India is the oldest among all of them and this civilisation is 10,000 plus years old, it is still existing, it is still existing, so if we talk about antiquity, we will talk about today, which is not compared to India, India is the oldest civilization, there is no doubt in it at all, so now after superiority in it, we will talk about knowledge and wells, so brother, if you talk about geographical area, then if we talk only about the Arappan phase of India, if we talk about our history, only Harappan phase, Saptasindhu phase, then the geographical area was of Harappan phase.  Even if you add Egypt and Mesopotamia, it will still fall short. Our Yogaraj has taken such a huge area and it was a very developed and powerful phase of separation. There were big cities, there were small settlements and there were small villages too, but all of them were closed and were built and highly developed and the entire system was of the best civilization and there was very high level of architecture and engineering, hydro engineering and many other things. So it is clear that this was a very scientific and technological advancement phase of civilization. Some parts of India had advanced 5,000 years ago. If you talk about advancement, then think about the knowledge required to build all this. Such a high level of architecture, such a high level of scientific and technological progress cannot happen without knowledge. If you talk about respect, then you see big 13 minutes from there, for which definitely and engineering know how. But our engineering iron was no less than that and our engineer Noah was before him and it is such a big civilization whose geographical area is so big and so highly developed, then imagine that the wealth would also be so much and if you want to read the welcome page then you should look at the research of Angus Medicine, which is publicly available, it is only a part of the last two thousand years, but in that also it is very clear that India's GDP is at least 100% of the total GDP of the whole world, even at that time Egypt was quite advanced and during the time of Roman Iraq, if there was a small correction in the GDP of India, then it is a magic player that India's historical status has been that it has always been the most advanced in everything, in knowledge, in wealth and if you go further back, then it will increase even more and India's share in the entire world's GDP will increase, it is very clear that this has been the historical role of India, the gift of meeting the most advanced is not something special, it is in comparison and  If you talk about waste, you portray it so much as waste, then you will definitely portray it as waste. The western world believes that their civilization, support, qualification, and according to them, Egypt and the Middle East, their original image of the Middle East and research, these three are their sources, so they consider this gift as a source of their civilization, so for this, it will have to be exaggerated, it will have to be exaggerated, so this is a simple reason why the waste portrays you so advancedly, let's have some more questions, Dungar Singh Chauhan says, please tell us about Srinivasa Ramanujan, see, Srinivasa Ramanujan was a natural talent in mathematics, I don't see from here, and a mathematician is naturally talented, but normally what happens is that mathematicians study in a step by step progression, so they study from school to college, then college to Sheffield University, and then in research career, Srinivasa Ramanujan, there was no such structured study.  He danced on his own, internet diabetes and the Indian education system, this education system almost destroyed him. Now if I have so much talent or if someone is so strong in any field, then does it mean that his talent will decrease in the second phase? Now Ramanujan's talent was not only in mathematics but in anything else. He failed in English and social service and in everything in school and college but he made his orbit in the match. But the Indian education system is such that you have to pass in everything. If you do not pass everything, then you will pass. So this system is so bad that it almost destroyed Ramanujan but fortunately he survived and a British, that is, Mr. Hardy, Raman ji had written a letter to him. When G.H. Hardy showed this letter, he understood that this was a very high, lovely high level thing and then he called Ramanujan to London. Then what  The Western world discovered Raman ji and Ramanujan remained active for only a few years Ajay Masterbation Eventually he died at a very young age but his contributions were incredible inspirations and are still very useful especially for string theory and in the black hole project extra quantum discovery that is still useful so he was a very super talent in mathematics he was one in huck one hundred years and definition of that so that is in short but Srinivas Ramanujan was very talented and very high level mathematician that a Shravan just now ok next question are the Nepali support of Indian civilization is absolutely the people of Nepal are absolutely a part of Indian culture and Indian civilization there is no doubt in this if you look at Nepal and Sri Lanka then all these are part of our civilization today though there are definitely different countries but there is a huge difference between civilization and country so country is the best for even there the concept of nation state which is the system that is prevalent today  There has been a Westphalian nation-states, according to that, India, Sri Lanka and Nepal are different countries with different nations, but that civilization is the same and the people are also the same, for me we are very similar, our ancestors were the same and our culture and our Jor culture is also the same, so this is definitely a part of the culture of Nepal in the people of Nepal, Shravan Just and Soro asks, Namaste, the way you made a full documentary on sugar mines, so on which subject are you working on making such a documentary, please make one on science also, I have some projects going on, it will take some time, right now I will not announce the configuration of what I am working on, but those choris will all be released step by step and I am absolutely confident that it will be useful to you, everyone is interested, next that guy times right, so I am definitely working on some things, but it will take some time, okay brother, it is a matter of quality, the quality should be good, what I have been doing till now  I'm doing a live stream and answering as many questions as I can and releasing small tips for them, but I have to change my strategy. I'm also monitoring this channel and creating high-quality documents. So, research is currently underway on it. Venturi will implement it, which will take some time. I invented the Times Right, and I'll definitely build it on science as well. Definitely, it's Lut and Mr. Vansh. What have you seen? India Switch of Prime Minister feature. I haven't seen it. I can only say that I hope our future leaders are good and their quality should always increase a little bit every time so that our feature becomes stronger and stronger. For this, we have to understand what leadership is. What is dealership? What is the problem today? No one knows what leadership is. What is dealership? Leadership is a very important thing in everyone's life, if we understand it.  Did you understand or not that it is real and then what is the leadership then the future of our country will not be so good, so I hope that our future Prime Ministers, you become President, whoever it is, in the future only our government system can change, definitely, so I hope that our future leadership will be very good, let us ask you that a Chinese and so strong man would not talk about Pakistan land, good west, very good question, if China is so powerful then why doesn't it occupy Pakistan, see, it is already ruling Pakistan, you are the CEA because the Pakistani Army which rules Pakistan is definitely the stomach of China, so China is getting all the benefits of controlling Pakistan, so why should it go and because brother, if you go and keep Pakistan under your eyes then you will have to dominate Pakistan, why would you ask, take it upon yourself, just do remote control and as far as governance is concerned and all those things are there in Pakistan Leave this on the front, why do you have to enter, it is simple, they are getting liquor benefits without making Pakistan the Governor, see, there is another Vindhyachal Bhawan, the country, Prithvi, win-win situation for China, because what has to be done, okay bye, you will do it, then you will have to sell your army, your ministry, administrator, you will have to sell the entire state of the country, whatever problem has to be solved, why do you have to do it brother, there is no need, that is why China does not comment further and only controls Pakistan through a series of proxy, this is a win-win situation, Pakistan is looted, so let's take some more questions, Priya says that India is completely self-reliant, India is self-reliant to some extent, I do not believe that India is completely offline tech, if you talk about general production and through this, whatever weapons we have, or we import a lot of these weapons from different countries, so in this we do not have celluloid, now we also import a lot of food grains  We import food items from different countries, so we are self-reliant in that too. Today, such a situation exists because of the fact that all the countries are not one hundred percent superior in anything, so India is in the same situation, but if you compare China, they manufacture everything separately on their own, so China is very good at a high level, only fashion and champion, and they import only basic materials which are not available with them, and you import rare earth and some minerals extra but support finished products, so this has been a very successful system of China, which India should also actually adopt immediately, so I do not believe that India is completely self-reliant at this time, but India is definitely progressing quite well, it has happened, it has happened, and let us not ask for details on that, and good for understanding leadership, Vicky, about leadership, Madam, I have not seen any good picture today.  Till now some books talk about leadership but it talks about corporate conduct, leadership in corporate conduct, that is fake leadership but if you are a project manager then how do you do everything, you do nothing, then all this is not there and corporate leadership management and management is not leadership, measurements are just serving for a price, so unfortunately I have read any good book on leadership, I have not found any till date, unfortunately so if you do not understand leadership then you will have to read history and historical figures.  You will have to study the lives of great leaders and historical figures, whoever you like, whoever you consider as historical figures, study their lives, through that you might understand a little about leadership, but I don't know anything specific from which you can learn leadership, unfortunately I lost a new Krish Bahra says that don't think calling Bhatkeshwar these various Islamic invaders distrustful, today Indian society is the best Indian Islam peacefully and for two thousand of Muslims should ask you for help in this, brother, which Muslim scholars fought with Tarkeshwar, that I think Hudgens definitely spoke against tax, at that time Afghanistan was a part of India, but the senior Islamic invaders were not Christian inverts, they were not Hindu in image, what is disrespectful in that, brother, it is a simple fact, the research rocky, nothing which is respectful  Even these callings of invaders mirror, I keep them horny because it is okay with the morning or if you do matters after that or those girls should talk to Mughals, all this is just a matter of the field, so I call them Turkish eunuchs, but some people call it Islamic invasions, which is absolutely unpleasant, there is nothing disrespectful in it, according to me, and if some Muslim soldiers had fought against them after hearing this, then it is a good thing to fight because they are from India, but these invasions are definitely because of Turkey, and Islamic invasion, there is nothing about business pet in it, Ban Chatterjee asks, who will start India vs Pakistan, there is an order, breakup of India with evil, brother, this should have been done a few years ago, today if you see, where will the place be, then China has more money than India, if they compare China, if they compare Pakistan, then we cannot match that bad, today in 199, if we should do this, we should do it  If it was so, it would have been successful but today China's juice pending power is much more than India. Today, even if we bribe Pakistan, and China opens that bag and sees easily, then it will keep doubling itself. Therefore, today this technique of Tata ji will not work, it should have been done earlier. Vineet asks about secularism in India, what was the subjective secularism? It is a philosophy, cardiology, what ever, it means only one thing that it is anti- Hindu religion. Secularism, these people say that this is their Hindustan and to save Bharat, this thing was imported in India, but India does not need confirmation. It is a foreign ideology or a foreign concept. The historical meaning of secularism has been separation of change and state. There is no church in India. We have not seen these till recently, now it is coming up differently, so what is the need of secondary education in India and what is the need to fit this breast cancer in India?  There is a need but it has happened now, we have been implementing it for the last 70 years, 60 years, so now it has become a very integral part of India and it has become a high ideal, it is a look-alike and you become the same, circular, I do not believe in secularism at all, thank you, no doubt, so let's have some more questions, it has happened, okay, okay, by adding a period of one thousand years back, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Bangladesh, North East India, hypocrisy, what is and Vivo, body, and of Hinduism, petrol, polythene, this is definitely a possibility, if we continue like this, then Hindus will be finished because the Indian State, the Indian Governor, the Indian Establishment, all of them are anti-Hindu and all the laws are anti-Hindu, the Constitution of India is anti-Hindu and all the government policies have also become anti-Hindu, so the curative effect of all this is different, there is a defect in Hinduism in the same day  It is gradually being ignored and this cunning which is happening, Hindu saint Kabir is also accelerating, if it continues like this then in the next hundred years, this year, Hindu religion will become extinct, that is definitely a strong possibility, just like Roman polytheism is gone, it is the possibility of emerging, Yogi asks what is Thomas positive conservative science, see there are a lot of mathematical calculations in astrology, so definitely there is some sound action of science in the country, but whatever its principles are, I cannot say whether they are so scientific or not, on the face of it, it is scientific in it, but it is unscientific, they say that some planets have some effect on our lives, I am a scientist, I have never done astrology, so maybe I am not the right person to ask about it, maybe there will be something in astrology, but I do not know about it, I have never done astrology, I understand astronomy, I understand science, Android Astro Physics  I understand I review Additional District but I have never studied astrology so that's why inside the fee pocket I think it is not that scientific but I am also mistaken because I have never studied it in detail in the morning also I am not the right person to ask West to Ujjain once so let's take a couple of questions from Shravan by this line President in Africa what will invest I repeated the previous song again 140 channel back China is investing in Africa for raw material there is a lot of raw material from minerals, there is school, there is gold and many other Roberts which are used in electronics, there is shell and timber and many other things and Africa 151 points touch content based on 72825 century and they want to increase their sphere of influence there which is politically if you want to pass some resolution in the urine then you need numbers if you make good investments in Africa and keep them happy then you will get their WhatsApp so these are all different reasons for which  China is very serious about these investments, so for this China is so interested in Africa, let me take a couple of questions, Anand Mohan is asking us about the European nuclear treasure found in India, it's amazing, I've heard about it, but I've never seen it before. Some people say that nuclear radiation is found in some Indus Valley-sized structure, brother. I've never seen anything like this. Who tweeted this, and which instrument did they use? It was some other counter, and how much did they get a relation order? So, only some specific information is not available about this, who tweeted this, what was his name, how did he delete it, so I think all this is a mushrooming rumor, until I get hard evidence, I can't give any opinion about it. Unfortunately, I've also searched about it, but I've never had any hand in David Villa. Solid, looks like it's just a room and will remain. Maybe this MP3 Bluetooth word loot. New Delhi Uttam says that these days Japanese attack on 370, you know, the Japanese army became active in the Second World War to invest and occupy India and with them was the Indian National Army of Subhash Chandra Bose, so they invaded North India through this, they invested in Nagaland and sold their skin in Manipur and it was very important but also the Battle of Ko and the Battle of Imphal and some other battles from Moirang information in Manipur, there was a pattern of theirs and the Battle of Rat Hill also took place, Manipur was quite intense and Japan lost all these battles and from there Japan's sequence of defeat in the Second World War started, so their objective was to remove the British from India, you should occupy India completely there, Japan wanted to occupy India and then they wanted to occupy India, so this was their personal and then they had reached so far away from Japan that their supply lines and  All this became very worrying and because of this they lost all these Petis and then the complete retreat of Manchurian started from here and there was improvement in short but Japanese attack in North East India on Ajay, so let me take another question, Jhalal Loot Manoj is asking whether this termite is good for India and Shirdi soil something new for democracy is good for India, but democracy is an Indian system, if you talk about the history of India, if you talk about Mahajanapada Iraqi, then how were the democracies in India at that time, if you talk about Harappan Iraqi, then there also it seems that our system was democratic because there is no balance of any king Maharaj in it, there is no such bead or autocratic system, so it is clear that even at that time there were Democratic leaders in India, so what is said in the West that democracy is divided from Greece, this is absolutely a point collection, this currency is Indian system, but this historical democratic system in India was different from today's system, so in India  There were kings and emperors too, but democracy was said from here, at that time, it was a hybrid system of India and today the system of democracy in India has become an inferior and weak system. Because of this, more divisions are happening in India and this is not good for India. So, India needs to find another system. Perhaps the historical democratic system of India needs to be discovered and invested in it, but today's system is not so good that you can use these other systems and India is not getting any benefit from it. India is facing this obscene problem. So, I think India needs a better system now, more democratic and strong and a system which will be good for India. India needs that. So, let me take one last question for today. Shashank says and asks, what do you think how Lord Krishna would have dealt with the situation in our country, in which country is right on this topic. If you read the history of India during the time of Mahabharata, then Shri Krishna said  He did it and he must have made a lot of efforts to unify everyone. He tried very hard with the pride of negotiations so that he could avoid the possibility of war, but these negotiations failed. Then he told the Pandavas that you will have to fight. This was his philosophy: try to avoid war as much as possible, make every effort, and if these efforts fail, then definitely go to war. He believed that his decision would be successful. What would he do today? If Krishna had come to India today, he would have seen that India is a very divided country, there are many problems in India, and the Indian government system is very weak. So, perhaps he would have done something like this while reporting to the system. And there is no question of war, it is a good thing at this time, but his face would have been like this. India has become a very unrighteous country. So, perhaps he would have promoted religion in India, then he would have done something like this. Now all I can say is that Shri Krishna is the incarnation of Shri Krishna, so perhaps Shri Krishna would have done something like this.  So let's ask one last question abroad, what should India do, interview Kulwinder Cold War, what should India do at this time, right now a new code word type situation is being created, the entire geopolitical real alignment is happening in the world, WhatsApp India Dubai, what should India do, it is very simple, India has to strengthen itself economically and militarily and internally, today India is facing a lot of internal problems, there is a lot of division in India, there are many problems of infiltration, many Bangladeshi Rohingyas have entered everywhere and many such things are going on, so India has to pay a lot of attention to its internal problems, it has to do an internal strike, India has to form a trust as soon as possible, it has to increase its economy, at least 10-12 crore, the first step India will have to do is 150 crore and it will have to do as much as possible as soon as possible, you need to increase the economic growth, you should be happy with this, that is why India has to strengthen itself with military along with it  We have to increase our diplomatic juice, we have to teach them through trains and India has to do all this, if we do all this well and in a very good systematic way, then we will emerge from this cold war as a very strong country, so India should do this, now today's session is over, the remaining 1 hour and 15 minutes have passed, so thank you very much for attending this, please tell me in the comments how you liked this section, this is the first Hindi section in Hindi, did you like it or did you dislike it, please give me your feedback and I will definitely do it and if anyone has any suggestion for improvement, then I will try to improve it, so thank you very much, Dhaniya to all of you and I will definitely meet you in the next session, thank you very much, good good night, bye bye