Heat. Heat. [Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Hello, good evening, good day everybody and welcome to the Ask a Widget Show. This is another unscheduled episode because of the situation that we currently find ourselves in and I hope you're all doing very well. I just watched the address to the nation by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It was very interesting to say the least and I'm sure I'm going to have questions about that in today's episode. And I was supposed to have this start the episode at 8:00 p.m. today, but then it it emerged that Prime Minister Modi was going to do the speech at 8:00 p.m. So it made sense for me to move it to 9:00 p.m. So here we are and thank you so much for being on this live stream. Let me see who all is there on the live stream. I can see Shravani Man Cheddar Anand Pai Gojo Lone Travel Guru Rashmir Ratur Barka Batra Nationalist Arpit Jane Amandep Singh Anand Chandak Pranav Pavish Shrina Dikant Bish Parapati Panda 9000 SP Ishan WMA Vishal Jwal Chaitananya Kai Angeli Sinha Sinha Parasav Kundu Chira Parker Aish Mishra Mudra Makwana Jit Singh Abinav Tutti Mishra, Nikil, Negi, Rushi, Shashank, Koshik, Pravin, Na, Hardik, Papati, Amitg, Davik, Shrian, Himanch, Shukla, Vishal, Kumar, Pray, all from Kolkata, Vehav, Shindai, Akash, Ba, Karan, Nalawat, NGL, Knight, Pratamesh, Tjas, Shash, Patandikar, uh, Anand, Mi, Yatagiri, Amit, Gag, Event Countdown, Vidant, Shukla, and everybody else. Thank you so much for being in the live stream. I'll not spend so much time greeting you all. Please let's get going with the questions. Please ask me your questions. I'm sure you have a lot to ask and we have a lot to discuss. So, okay, adventure with Saraj starts the questioning. The first question is what do you think about Prime Minister Narendra Modi's speech? It was a very interesting speech and I think you know what what I need to actually do is I need to play the speech in the background and I need to react to it. I've never done a reaction video to anybody. I think it is time for me to do make such a video. Now I don't have the speech right now. I'll have to download it and play it or something like that. I've never done that before. So maybe I'll do it tomorrow. How about I do a live stream tomorrow in which I react in real time to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's speech because it was about 20 22 minutes long. Very important points were made in that speech. He was visibly angry and a lot of subtleties and nuances in that speech. So I think I'll do an episode again tomorrow. I mean completely out of unscheduled but let's do it. I'll do another episode tomorrow, another live stream tomorrow in which I'll react to Prime Minister Modi's speech segment by segment. But overall, let's let's answer the question today. I think it was very interesting the speech. Prime Minister Modi uh made many points that we have been discussing the past few days, right? Uh he made it very clear that uh over a 100 Pakistani terrorists have been eliminated. He said that many uh terror uh masterminds uh have been eliminated. Right? He also said he made it very clear to the Pakistanis that this is this so-called ceasefire is a pause. We have put a pause to think to this thing because you came to us and you begged for a pause. So, we have put a pause to our military actions and we're going to now and we made the did the pause because you promised us that you're going to mend your ways. So, we're going to hold you to it and we're going to observe you, we're going to scrutinize your activities and actions very closely and the moment you you show any sign or signal of going back to your old ways, we're going to resume operation. So, it's just a pause. That's what he said. He also said that uh he said that terror and talks cannot go together. He said that terror and trade cannot go together. He said blood and water cannot flow together. Very clear, right? He so these are the points that he made. He also made a statement. He said to the larger to the world at large whoever is out there beyond the subcontinent he said that you know if you want India and Pakistan to talk to hold talks then yeah we can talk but we if we talk to Pakistan we're going to talk about terrorism if we talk to Pakistan we're going to talk about P and nothing else. It's very interesting what he said to the rest of the world. What does he mean by the rest of the world? What does he mean? That's the question. And it's also really interesting to note what or who Prime Minister Modi did not mention in his address to the nation. Who is it that has tried to take credit for the so-called ceasefire? It is US President Donald Trump, right? He has tried to take credit for the ceasefire. And Mr. Narendra Modi did not mention the United States. He did not mention President Trump. Right? So he clearly disagrees with what Trump is saying. And US Secretary of State Marco Rubio had said he had stated that India and Pakistan he he he announced this the guy that India and Pakistan have decided have have agreed to hold talks at a neutral venue of some kind. So prime minister Modi said to the world at large that yeah we can talk to Pakistan but if we talk to Pakistan we'll talk only about terrorism and P and nothing else and terrorism and talks cannot go together so first we will need to see how Pakistan behaves right and Trump had tweeted about this thing a couple of days ago that uh India and Pakistan are now going to have a ceasefire and you will know we all know that whenever President Trump tweets anything about India. Prime Minister Modi very rapidly acknowledges that with a great amount of warmness on Twitter itself. Right? And this time Prime Minister Modi has ignored Trump's tweet and if you watched the speech the address of Prime Minister Modi he looked visibly angry at times. Now what was he visibly angry about? Obviously about the Indians who were killed in the Pahelgam attack. Sure, he was angry about Pakistan and Pakistan's behavior for sure. But I think there was another element or aspect or dimension to his anger. He was angry at something more than Pakistan. I think he was angry angry about Trump, Trump's interference. Trump came in the way. Trump actually said that he Trump actually threatened India that we're going to end trade with India. That's the threat that he gave. And I can I can prove it to you. Give me a second. Let me bring that on the screen. I will I will put that on the screen. So, here is uh just give me a second. Okay, let's put this on the screen. So, this is what the media has not really highlighted the Indian media. I don't know what they do. It's it's come out on the times of India over here as you can see as a kind of footnote. No uh US stop nuclear conflict blah blah blah blah blah blah etc etc etc right more more more and millions of all that he's talking about and then what look at this paragraph I think nobody in the Indian media has has noticed this or paid attention to this Trump further confirmed ongoing trade negotiations with both India and Pakistan stating that we are going to do a lot of trade with Pakistan we're going to do a lot of trade with India we are negotiating with India right now and uh one second where did that go it's interesting trade we're going to soon negotiate with Pakistan interesting where is that particular part of the thing uh huh okay here he also claimed Trump that US trade leverage played a role in diffusing tensions between the neighboring countries stating we helped a lot and we also helped with trade I said come on we're going to do a lot of trade with you guys let's stop it. Let's stop it. If you stop it, we doing trade. If you don't stop it, we are not going to do any trade. Do you understand that? If you don't stop it, we're not going to do any trade. People have never really used trade the way I used it. But that I can tell you and all of a sudden they said, so he threatened, forget about Pakistan, he threatened India that if you don't stop what you're doing to Pakistan, we are not going to do any trade. Which essentially means that the Americans will impose trade sanctions on India. Do you see what Trump has done? He threatened to impose trade sanctions on India. We will not do any trade with you anymore. That's what he said. That can destroy a nation's economy. Pakistan doesn't matter whe whatever he said to Pakistan. Pakistan was not the one uh you know striking at at the other country. We were the ones who had Pakistan at at our mercy and Trump came in the way and saved Pakistan and then he claimed that he he has achieved this great uh great ceasefire. Right? So Mr. Modi has Mr. Modi was clearly very angry about this. And I promise you this my friends, Trump will in some shape or form or some way pay some kind of price for this what he has done in the long run. He has another four, three and a half, four years to go, right? This is a long-term thing. The the world doesn't uh it doesn't, you know, forget about the short term. the the world is a long-term game and Trump is well this will come back to to he will he will see reminders of this somewhere the US will have to pay some kind of price for what they've done here for giving Pakistan a lifeline so uh that's what I can say but let's take some more questions come on let's do that doesn't India export pharmaceuticals to the US yeah but but please look at the bigger picture that's not how trade works Um uh anonymous scientist says that interestingly there was no mention of Trump or his administration in Prime Minister Modi's address to the nation. That's exactly what I just discussed. Right? Mr. Modi made it a point to not mention Donald Trump or his administration or the US in his address to the nation. It it is very notable and it is uh very interesting. Right. Okay, I'll not take questions about astrophysics today. We're we're discussing Pakistan and this issue, the three-day war. Uh Hari Vin says, "How many units of Akash and S400 systems do we need to guard India's borders? It is very evident uh after the 3-day war has paused that we have sufficient units of Akash and S400 systems to guard our western border with Pakistan from the north all the way to the south all the way from Ladak all the way to Kach in Gujarat western India. All of that we have been able to completely per almost perfectly safeguard it. So that is taken care of. Now we have another bigger border. I mean if you want to look at the map in case you're not familiar with India's map but let's do it. Let's illustrate the point I am trying to make here. Let's take a look at the map. Here is map. So we have this western border with the terrorist with the artificial ter temporary terrorist nation uh which is all the way from Ladak Jammu and Kashmir. You have Himachal Pradesh I don't know not really Himachal Pradesh but Hiana Punjab all those regions then Rajasthan large state then Gujarat another large state all the way to Sir Creek in the western most part of Gujarat Kach right so all of that we have now proven that it is perfectly well defended uh through this multi-layered air defense system that we have which has Akash which has Barak which has S400 which has the L70 gun which as man pads which is which is pura all these different systems integrated together in a multi-layered air defense system so we have so so before I I go further with that let me say something my friends do you people realize what's what has been proved to the world in the past in this three-day war the world will now notice that India has the world's best air defense system. The world's best battle tested air defense system tested over and over again in just 3 days. The Indian air defense system, I don't know what it its name is. It doesn't have an integrated name, but the Indian air defense system is superior to Israel's Iron Dome. We proved it over the course of this three-day war. The Pakistanis threw everything they had at us and we brought everything down. Nothing went through. Not a single drone, not a single short-range missile, medium-range missile, whatever range missile. They even launched a missile at Delhi. That was brought down. Everything they tried was brought brought down. They tried to hit more than 25 maybe more than 30 Indian cities, civilian centers. They tried to hit schools and colleges and temples and gurudaras and whatnot, right? They tried to hit everything they could and nothing was touched. They tried it over and over and over again. In just one night, they launched more than 500 drones. Every single one was brought down. India has the world's best battle tested air defense system. Superior to the Iron Dome system of the Israelis. superior to anything else that has been actually battle tested. Incredible. Now coming back to the question. All right. So here we are. Now we have another border with the actual larger threat which is China. This is the India Tibet border. Right? All the way from Arunachal Pradesh all the way to Uttarakhand. And then we if you go further north in the Ladak region uh we have Singinjang. what the Chinese call sing. So that's another significantly large uh border. If we add up the length of the border, it is uh definitely longer than the border that we have with the temporary nation. Now I'm not sure what the situation of concerning air defense is along the India, Tibet and India uh Chinese occupied territory border but we will need the same quality and quantity same quality of air defense but probably a larger quantity because the Chinese may pose a different kind of threat. They may have different kinds of they definitely will have different kinds of weapons compared to what the Pakistanis have right the Pakistanis what do they have in terms of aircraft fighter planes they have uh the F-16 which is an 1970s aircraft but the Americans have been upgrading it so it is I'm sure it's a pretty good aircraft let's not write it off it's a pretty good aircraft the F-16 and they have the Chinese JF17 which is a much better aircraft much more modern aircraft and those threats have been neutralized by India We saw it over the past three days. Now the Chinese have fifth generation generation fighter planes. Two at two different kinds of fifth generation fighter generation fighter planes. The J the J20 I think it's called and there's one more apparently and they have other other kinds of fighter planes. They have I'm sure many more fighter planes numerically than the Pakistanis have and they have other maybe superior missiles what the Pakistanis have and superior drones perhaps. So uh so we haven't our air defense system hasn't been tested against the Chinese but we our armed forces obviously will know very well what the Chinese have. It's not like we are blind and we have no idea what the Chinese are up to. We have been studying the Chinese threat for a very very long time. We have professionals who whose entire job is to study China. So we have that that's going on and I'm sure that we have the technology now. It's very clear we have some of the best technology in the world. I think the Indian missiles and Indian air defense system indigenous one is I think superior to anything anybody has anywhere in the world. We can actually say that now after the battle testing it underwent for 3 days and three nights. So I'm sure that we can very well take care of the Chinese threat. The Chinese must be really worried right now. The whole world is now looking at India with a different set of eyes. In just 3 days the whole perception has changed and it obviously has to change. I think numerically we will need more more numbers of Akash systems, more numbers of S400 systems, more numbers of whatever else. The border is longer. We also have to consider the geographical position of our friendly nation Nepal for instance. Let me put that on the screen once again. Let's take a look. So in case there's a war in the future between India and China, the Chinese if if things don't go well don't go well for the Chinese they may try and leverage Nepal. They may try to come through Nepal also. We also have to keep that in mind. I'm sure we are keeping that in mind. So Nepal could become Nepal, you know, you could say the British uh left Nepal independent because they wanted a buffer state between uh territory that the Chinese were interested in and British India, British occupied India. So Nepal is kind of still occupies the position of kind of a buffer state and the Chinese may try to leverage that if they can if there's a war with India which doesn't go well for them. So we will have to consider this entire border. It's like we have to defend Nepal also against China right we have to defend all the way from the northernmost part of Ladak all the way to the eastern most part of Pradesh including Bhutan including Sikkim including Nepal in including Uttarakhan Himachel everything else that's what how we have to approach the potential threat so I'm sure we will need many more units of Akash S400 systems than we have deployed on the western border and the the units that are deployed on the western border will have to stay there and now we will have to uh reformulate our approach because the Pakistanis will have learned something from the past 3 days from the absolute whooping they got over over the past 3 days. So now battle strategies and tactics and perceptions and everything else they evolve. It always evolves. Every new battle is a new day and a new new set of uh parameters that you have to consider. Right. Okay. Okay. Okay. I can see questions. All right. Let's see this. Mlvin says, "So Trump said on Truth Social that after a thousand years he will find a solution for Kashmir. Is the thousand-year thing a hit towards us? Is he trying to make Kashmir a global issue?" No, I don't think Trump is interested in making Kashmir a global issue issue. But he's focusing on Kashmir right now. Let's understand why Trump has suddenly decided to focus on Kashmir. Let's understand what actually happened. So Trump had made the promise to his voters h that he will end the Ukraine war on the first day of his presidency. That's the promise he had made and he has failed miserably. at that then that didn't work and now the Americans are no longer interested in mediating in the Ukraine Russia thing and they now seem to be looking at Ukraine from a purely financial and resources perspective the the minerals deal they've done so they are okay with letting the war go on now it looks like so Trump has failed miserably at his promise uh about ending the Ukan war when it comes to uh the Gaza situation, the Israel Gaza war. Well, things aren't going well there. Also, he has not able he's not been able to end that conflict or decisively turn it in favor of whoever he wants it to. And uh his personal equation or relationship with uh Netanyahu has also seems to have soured. So even that's not going well for him. So he's looking for a win somewhere and he and he has decided that I'm going to arm twist India into giving me this this win I want. So here we go public of India of America American voters look what I did. I just walked in and I ended the conflict. I made did a ceasefire and uh this thousand-y year thing I just don't get what it means. Is he trying to talk about the thousand years in which the uh Arabic and Turic uh marauders tried to invade India and some of them occupied India for some time? Is he talking about that? Or is he saying that it's not our conflict, it's a forever conflict and maybe if I stop it then I'm a great great great Mahapurush or something. Not sure. I don't really care what he's trying to say. Now the real question is what see JD Wans Trump's number number two uh the vice president he had made the statement that you know this this conflict India Pakistan war etc it's none of our business it's not America's business we need to stay out of it and just about 24 hours later they this they they step in and they announce that they've ended the conflict they've made India and Pakistan agree to a ceasefire so what caused this sudden U-turn from the Americans What caused that? That's the interesting question, isn't it? What really happened? Something happened that that sent the Americans in a panic. And it's being speculated that India hit various uh nuclear uh storage sites of the Pakistanis where they have stored nuclear warheads. The Americans seem to be very interested in those warheads for some reason more than the Chinese. So apparently one one scenario one possibility is that India hit Pakistani nuclear warhead storage sites and maybe destroyed some war warheads maybe radiation leaked out and that's why the Americans have come to mop things up and maybe apparently the Pakistanis may have made some threats to the Americans that we will cross the nuclear threshold and the Americans panicked maybe that's another scenario but what really happened I think the Americans started panicking once we started hitting the Nur Khan air base in 30 minutes we hit nine air bases right we had completely neutralized Pakistan's air defenses and in the last 30 minutes of the war the Indian air force crossed over into into the Pakistani airspace or into Pakistani territory cratered all the runways and started hitting air base after air base we hit nine air bases in 30 minutes with complete air dominance once you crater the runways of the of the enemy their planes can't take off and we we did very very damaging hits to places like Nurh Khan, Nurh Khan Air Base. Now here's the deal. Some of these air bases have F-16s, American F-16s. Now do you know the deal with America and Pakistan? These F-16s are given to Pakistan but the Americans own the F-16s and they have the Americans have personnel who are always on location in Pakistan and who never let the F-16s off out of their eyes. So in every Pakistani air base that has F-16s stationed there, you will have a bunch of American technicians and and personnel who are in charge of babysitting and safeguarding the F-16s. Which means that if the Pakistanis launch F-16s towards India, it is with the full cooperation of the Americans. It also means that when when India hits those air bases which have F-16s well people can die. What kind of people? American personnel. Did that happen? Did that happen in the past 3 days? Is that why the Americans said enough is enough? My question is why do the Americans have so much of an interest in Pakistan? So, you know, this is the kind of thing that's that's happened. Some people said there's a nuclear leak. I'm seeing seeing the comments and all that, but there's I'm sure there are multiple reasons for this. But the Americans gave the Pakistanis a lifeline. And Mr. Modi is extremely angry about this. It's very clear. Sun G says something very interesting. And I like what Suna G is saying here. Trump gave India an easy way out of buying overexpensive American weapons. We should accept this large big ginormous beautiful gift. I said some time ago that Mr. Modi is very angry, clearly angry. I I could see that during his address to the nation and he made it a point not to mention his good friend President Trump and not to mention the United States in his address to the nation. He refused to give the Americans any credit for what's for the ending or the pause in our military operations. Right? And Trump has saved the Pakistanis. He has saved their skins when we had the chance to end this once and for all. And the nuclear blackmail, the nuclear threat had been wiped out. There was no question of any nuclear threat. The Pakistanis was were begging for their lives. If if they really were to use the nuclear weapons, they would have used them earlier and even if they tried, they would have failed because our air defense would have taken everything out. That's what the Pakistanis came face to face with. So they they they were begging and pleading for their lives and and Trump saved their skins. Right now Mr. Modi, if you know anything about him, he doesn't forget, right? Trump is going to pay some price for this. He had declared unilaterally some time ago when Mr. Modi went to Washington DC. Trump had declared that India is going to buy F-35s. Well, why don't you try and make India buy F-35s now? H try and make India buy buy F-35s. Those overpriced flying trash bins. We're not buying any F-35s. Not going to happen. So yes, this is a very perceptive statement very perceptive and I agree with this. Paris says, "Will nuclear radiation reach northern India through air?" Which which which nuclear radiation? Which nuclear radiation? We haven't hit any nuclear reactors? Nuclear fallout happens when you either have an explosion, atomic explo, nuclear explosion of any kind in atmosphere in the atmosphere or it happens when you break open a nuclear reactor and there's a meltdown like what happened in Chernobyl or Fukushima. That's when you have nuclear radiation uh in the air. There's no such thing. If there is any leakage, it is localized leakage. See, I showed yesterday we I did a live stream yesterday in which I showed what's the melting point of uranium and what's the melting point point of plutonium and what's the evaporation point of uranium and plutonium. So, both could melt if you have nuclear warheads that we have hit with the bramos or whatever we have hit it causes a lot of gives off a lot of heat. So the fuel the the whether it's uranium or plutonium it may have melted but it won't have evaporated right so it won't go into the atmosphere maybe the the warheads would have fragmented and maybe it the the the fragments of the file material may have fallen over a wide area in Rahul Pindi or wherever else that's not our problem it's not reaching us so so worry not my friends worry thought okay Prashant Singh Johan says will poke come back in two to three months astrologers consider a high possibility of it I don't know about astrology okay I have zero understanding of astrology so I'll not comment about that I had made a prediction when the war started that that the borders will change in 14 days looks like my prediction is going to fall flat but let's see I will be happy if it comes in three two to three months I'll be happy uh it looked like it would have come in the last 3 days actually. Yeah. So, uh we will see about that. We will see. Who who who who says why did India not retaliate to the drone attacks from the idiot Pakistanis after the ceasefire understanding after the cessation temporary cessation of Indian military activities? How long are we going to accept this? Yes. So apparently the Indian media has been reporting uh that the Pakistanis have been indulging in ceasefire violations. We should we should hit them hard if they do that. Okay. So now uh understand something. Should I say this? Should I not say this? Look um Pakistan was begging for mercy. They were on their knees pleading for mercy, right? and the Americans stepped in and they we have done the ceasefire the so-called pause in our military activities. Do you think the Pakistanis are were in a position to to uh violate ceasefire? Maybe we were rubbing it in on them and they were trying to respond. Poss. I'm just I'm just completely speculating. Okay, this is pure speculation. It may or may not have anything to do with with the real world. I'm just saying. But yeah, if the Pakistanis are are breaking the ceasefire, we should punish them very thoroughly and very very uh hard for their ceasefire violations. Absolutely. All right. Uh let's here we have it. In spite of having the worst education system, how do we manage to develop such impressive technology? We have the worst education system, but we have the best minds. Friends, imagine if we improve the education system even 30% what this nation is going to achieve. We succeed despite all the friction, all the problems we have our our system has created for us. Imagine if we have an education system on par with what you have in the developed nations. Imagine what the people of this country will achieve. I I cannot imagine how how this country will change. It will be the greatest country in human history. Right? Despite having all these problems, despite having this super mediocre education system which seeks out and destroys talent and rewards mediocrity, still we have still we have people, engineers, scientists, etc. who develop the best technology in the world while being paid peanuts. Right? So we need to change this. It will unleash the potential of this nation. What can I say? Rohan says, "What do you think that CNN's false articles of saying the Rafal has been of has been downed? Is it a way of the Americans to arm twist India to buy F-35?" Okay, what do I think of this? CNN has been saying this. Many other American think tanks and journalists have been saying they have been verbating repeating what the Pakistanis have been claiming. Now whatever claims we have made we have given evidence of that incontrovertible evidence right we haven't officially said that we brought down x number of Pakistani airplanes we haven't said that now the the the claims the Pakistanis have made have they provided a shred of evidence a shred they've provided some social media posts some Reddit posts of some some plane crash in some past date maybe 2011 or 2014 or 2017 or 2022 or something old plane crashes, old debris they are showing and they're trying to photoshop them to make them look like they are current things. Have they shown a single piece of credible, verifiable, incontrovertible evidence to back it up? Zero. Nothing. So the CNN is lying. Now the question is why are the Americans lying? Respected American analysts are lying right now and and claiming that India lost five aircraft in the first day and all that sort of utter uh manure, horse manure. Why they doing this? It's because uh possibly the Pak see maybe if if if we downed Pakistani air aircraft then it means that our Russian and French technology brought those aircraft down right and the Pakistanis used Chinese and American technology. So you have to build that up. So it's it's about damage control. It's about perception management. It's it's to the Americans and the French don't get along. I'll tell you that the French do not have a good opinion of the Americans. The French actually see the Americans as adversaries. Okay? And there is no interoperability between the French intelligence agencies and the US. Very little. So the Americans um are obviously playing this game of perception management. U India is not an official US ally, right? So and Pakistan historically has been an official US ally and the Pakistanis use F-16s and a lot of other American equipment and uh you have American technicians on Pakistani air bases 24x7 by 365 tending to those F-16s, right? So yeah, there's a lot of reasons why the Americans have been make, you know, peddling these blatant lies which have zero verifiability. And if they think this is going what's going to make us buy the F-35, it's going to have the exact opposite effect. I think what India should do is buy a whole bunch of Rafal. The Rafal clearly works. Yeah. buy a whole bunch of Rafal the 4.5 generation fighter plane with all those long range super longrange missiles buy 100 buy 200 of those or if you don't want to buy Rafals maybe you can think of the Russian Suko 57 in case it is any good maybe it is some good possibly right let the experts decide how good or how not so good or whatever what the quality is and which is best suited for us we know how to use the Rafal we've been using it for using it for quite some time I think it's a pretty impressive aircraft from whatever I know whatever I Okay. So maybe we should just buy the the Rafal in large numbers and in the meanwhile in the meanwhile develop the advanced medium combat aircraft the fifth generation fighter plane we're developing. I promise you the only issue is the fighter jet otherwise we're going to bring you know we're going to put out a top class aircraft. I think now at least Indians should trust India's engineers and scientists and weapons designers after what we have seen the past 3 days. So yeah, that's what I think about this. Now geopolitical duet says, "Don't you think we should have a proper tool or mechanisms like China or Western countries to propagate our narrative? We should we should have our own propaganda outlets. The Chinese have multiple propaganda outlets. the Global Times and whatever and whatever whatever the the West has this whole hoorde, this whole ecosystem of propaganda outlets like the BBC, like the Guardian, like the CNN, like Fox News, like like like New York Times, Washington Post, the list just goes on and on. We have nothing. Why the hell do we have nothing? So, yeah, that needs to happen. Absolutely needs to happen. And Ary Singh says ceasefire violation. Apparently, there's a ceasefire violation happening right now. I think we should hammer the Pakistanis hard. Hammer hammer them hard. Okay. Uh, space KGB agent makes a good question. Asks good question. The Sculp Storm Shadow missile used in war is worth $2.5 million a piece. So, one missile is $2.5 million. Is it worth spending that much money for one missile? Well, it depends on what you use it for. If you take a $2.5 million missile and you and you launch it at a $100,000 drone, that is stupidity because the drone is worth $100,000 and the missile is 25 times more expensive. Stupidity. But what if you launch that $2.5 million missile at a $100 million target or in the case of Pakistan $10 million target because they won't have anything worth $100 million. So it depends on what you're using it for. You see, please understand, every weapon in our arsenal, in our toolkit, has a specific purpose. We're not using $2.5 million missiles to take out uh some some, you know, $100,000 target. The the S400 is a very expensive system. Do you think we use it to shoot down those little drones coming in? No. No. Please understand everything has its per use and purpose and we know exactly how to use each of these tools. Uh Kunal Gadia says why can't we make a steel border with Pakistan and permanently seated just like the US Mexico border same with Bangladesh border. Look the territory the terrain is very difficult. If you look at the India Pakistan terrain some of it is like pure desert some of it is different kinds of things. And when it comes to PK, why should we build a a wall between us and our own territory? And anyway, Pakistan is a temporary nation in the future it breaks up. Then we'll have to dismantle the wall because of what whatever reasons. It doesn't make sense. Doesn't make sense. And it's it's super expensive. And if you're trying to build a wall, you think the Pakistanis will sit and let us do it. They'll they'll they'll create some mischief like the ceasefire violations are happening, that sort of thing. So it's not practical or feasible. Um, Tanmay says, "Do you think things would have been different if Joe Biden was president or it would have been much worse for us?" It would have been much worse for us. He would have taken Pakistan side from the day one and he may have even imposed sanctions on India from day one. He may even have sent reinforcements to, you know, not reinforcements but uh supplies and whatnot to Pakistan. It's possible. Joe Biden and and Kamala Kamala Harris. Oh god, I've not thought of her for a while. Yeah, they were virolently anti-India. Okay. Karan Singh says, "Why is the international media so biased against India in its narrative?" It's it's a lot of reasons, historical reasons. The West sees India as the enemy. The West doesn't want to see India rise. The West says, "How dare you still stand on your own feet and try try to become a great nation after 250 years of British occupation? How dare you? How dare you still have your own culture and civilization? How dare you not have converted to what we have wanted to convert to?" and how dare you be independent, how dare you not become our vasal and so many other things. So they are super biased against us. That's that's how it is. Um okay, Dash says, can you do some analysis about Kirana Hills strike from the video? Look, I am not u an expert in geoloccation and all those little details and all that. So I can speak about it from a distance from a from from a larger perspective. Okay. Uh I I'm I'm not somebody who's well versed in those angles of attack and which direction the thing came from and let's take a look at the the pictures and videos that we have and let's analyze this trail and that that's not what I am uh an expert in. Uh what I can say is that I discussed this yesterday as well. Kirana Hills is uh about 100 something kilometers from the border. It's between it's it's it's in Pakistani Punjab about 100 something kilometers from Amritsa roughly right and it's a location where the Pakistanis have stored have have it's an underground location deep inside a hill with the which is a Pakistani nuclear warhead storage site so the Pakistanis may have been thinking that it's completely secret but we showed them it's not secret at all and uh we kind of scored a very direct hit at perhaps the entrance of the tunnel so it was a message to Pakistan. Uh that's what I can say. I'll not analyze in further detail. Now, Subit Morer says, "Was this a perfect time to use the the aircraft? Even if it turned out not so great, we would have got we would have still got a lot of information and scope of improvements from a battle tested aircraft." I can't speculate about that. I am not uh the aircraft is is quite different and it has a different very specific role. It's uh it doesn't have long legs. Uh, it doesn't have long legs like the Sukoy 30. The Sukoy 30 has super long legs. What it means, it has got very long endurance. The fuel tanks will hold fuel for, I don't know, 2,000 3,000 km perhaps, whatever it is, very long legs. They just has shorter legs. So, it has it is used for a different role. Every aircraft has a certain role to play. Now, I'm not sure what specificities of the battle plans were when it comes to this current uh the past this this recently paused 3-day war, but obviously the air force decided that we wanted to use certain aircraft. Now, I'm not sure which aircraft have been used. There's all kinds of speculations on social media and the official the the legacy media. But have you seen any statement from the government or the uh military or the or the air force that we used so and so kind of aircraft that we used hypothetically the Sukoy 30 or hypothetically the Mirage 3 2000 or hypothetically the Rafal or whatever else. They have made no official statements of any kind. So who knows maybe they just was used and they've not spoken about it. We don't know right? We don't know. So let's not start assuming things. People are assuming all kinds of things. All kinds of speculations are flowing on on in the media. They have no evidence to back it up. So okay. Uh Pratam Agaral says, "What are what are my thoughts on India fasttracking surveillance based satellites program the SBS program after the operation Synindur from four to 5 years to 12 to 18 months? What is SBS and what are the future benefits? I have no idea about what uh the the the satellites do because I have no access to this information. Obviously, I am a le a civilian like everybody else. But let's let's discuss what surveillance satellites do. What's a surveillance satellite? Uh there are so surveillance satellites are eyes in the sky. uh they have capabilities like they can track what's happening geographically in in a certain area okay they can peer through clouds let's say even if it's cloudy if it's the Indian rainy season they can peer through the clouds and see what's happening on the ground they have such capabilities okay and uh they can see things in various wavelengths the vis the the human eyes wavelength visible wavelength the that that spectrum They can see through things in other wavelengths also which are not visible to the human eye in various bands and frequencies and all that. And they can have very sharp resolution like you know from from space 200 300 km above the surface. They may be able to pick up something the size of a cell phone perhaps. So you can really uh keep an eye on what's happening and they can possibly track troop movements. they can track possibly the movement of specific individuals all of that in real time and uh that sort of thing. So typically these these are called spy satellites. Historically in the 20th century they were called spy satellites. Now spy satellites typically are low earth orbit satellites. Typically okay not always they can always have exceptions. I'm just saying generally. So generally a spy satellite may hypothetically be at an altitude of 200 300 km above the surface of the earth. And because of that they because they are not geostationary. So they will just pass through an area over and over again once every 90 minutes or so. So it makes makes sense to have multiple satellites. So every time a satellite goes over a location it doesn't go blank for 90 minutes. Soon you should have another satellite coming in. So that's sort of the capability you you want to have. I'm just saying this generally. I'm not saying we have exactly what I'm discussing here. What India the capabilities India has are classified. So that's the kind of thing a surveillance-based satellite is like and that's the kind of thing it does and it may do other things also. It may track you know the American VA satellites from the 1970s or 60s or whatever it was they had a very very very specific function. They their function was to uh look for double flashes on the surface of the planet. Double flashes. What's a double flash? It's an initial very brief flash and then a slow greater flash. That's the signature of an atmospheric nuclear weapons test and they ended up detecting gammaray bursts which is an astrophysical phenomenon that is a very um well it's something that's very much an area of interest today in astrophysics but we talking about something else here. So satellites have different purposes and they have all kinds of capabilities. um they can detect gamma rays. They can detect uh gamma rays are just light in a different uh frequency and so on. So that's what uh surveillance based satellites do. They are essentially eyes in the sky. They are spy satellites and they have different purposes. So if we are fasttracking it, it's fantastic. We need more eyes in the sky to cover different parts of our ge geographical uh neighborhood. Not just west, also east, also north, also the Indian Ocean region. We'll have maritime based satellites, you know, n satellites dedicated to the needs and requirements of the Indian Navy. They will have some satellites dedicated to the needs and requirements of the Indian Air Force, the Indian armed forces and so on and so forth. Yeah. So that's what SBS satellites do and uh it's it's interesting that we are now fasttracking the program which is good. We need to fasttrack a lot of a lot of things. Okay. Uh, Bot Gaming says, "Pakistan uh, developed the nuclear program and capabilities with the help of the West and China. Wouldn't it be foolish to assume that they don't have plans uh to be implemented if Pakistan goes against them with nuclear weapons? The Pakistani nuclear program is only and only aimed at India. It has it is never going to be aimed at the West. The Pakistanis don't even have the capability to target the west with the nuclear weapons because their missiles are all India specific missiles with a range that could target India and possibly Ian and that's more or less like it. What's the point of targeting Central Asia or the Gulf region? No point, right? It's all about India. Now the West, now the Americans, forget about the West. The Americans will have a very specific set of contingency plans over Pakistan's nukes. So it's called the worst case scenario planning. What if Pakistan disintegrates and the nuclear weapons start floating around and they some of them fall into the hands of the the Hik Taliban Pakistan. Some fall in the hands of the Baljasthan liberation army. Some fall in the hands of the ISIS and some fall in the hands of al-Qaeda and someh whatever the hell and something whatever these terrorist groups are named right uh Lashkar something and so on. So that's that's a nightmare scenario. If nukes start floating around like this and in the in the hands of the worst possible individuals, human beings on the planet of the earth on the surface of the planet. So the Americans will have something called a worst case scenario. If something like this is happening, they will swoop in and they will uh salvage the nuclear weapons. That's going to be the plan. So yeah, they have these contingency plans, the worst case scenario plans for sure. They don't discuss these things. They don't talk about it, but it's there. Okay, Laki Singh says sees fire violations in the sambar sector. Very nice. Pakistan I think the Pakistanis are asking for it. Krishna says will Trump not take it to the ego after Pakistani U-turn on ceasefire which Pakistanis have literally begged for. I think you know the Pakistanis are playing true to their nature true to form right and if something happens then they will blame India. So I think right now it's for India to somehow hold the line or if if India chooses then we can simply blame Pakistan and let them have it I suppose. Uh yeah so it's for our leadership to decide how to go about uh dealing with Pakistan's provocations and once again Spandan says ceasefire violated right okay what to do um Rangers Wolf says while Russia is focused on its own priorities how do you think it Russia views the IndiaPakistan war conflict and Russia's relationship with Pakistan see All geopolitical relationships are based on self-interest, national interest. There was a time when the Russians were kind of cozying up to Pakistan in the 2010s in the second half of of the 2010s. Um so I think around 2015 2016 around that time the Russians and Pakistanis started this yearly military exercise joint military exercises called the DRJBA exercises. DJBA means friendship in Russian. So they called their military exercises friendship exercises and they were being held once a year all the way until 2021. What happened in 2022? I wonder the exercises stopped. Yeah. Because of geopolitical expediency because the Russians needed India on their side or at least to be neutral after the uh special military operation against Ukraine was was was implemented. You see how it goes? So they were trying to make friends with Pakistan. They even sold Pakistan some some some equipment you know helicopters military helicopters and such like right. So understand that if you are strong, if you are powerful, if you are of of if you are valuable, if you are of some good use, then everybody will want to be your friend. But if you are if you are perceived to be weak and not worth not not very valuable then even your old friends may turn away and seek new friends. So that's the historical uh that's a history lesson visav question. Now Russia currently has its own priorities. It is embroiled in this never-ending war with Ukraine. Right? Trump wanted to end it didn't work. uh initially Trump and Putin tried to end it but the the European nations come in came in the way and now Trump seems to have tired of whatever is happening and he's no longer interested in negotiating a ceasefire or or helping to negotiate a ceasefire he's now interested in Ukraine's mineral wealth the minerals deal that he has he has had Zalinsky sign with him right so Russia has this ongoing war this slow war scenario long war scenario that's unfolding on its western southwestern frontier the Ukraine region right and Russia because of this has faced a lot of difficulties they have been able to uh to withstand the the economic siege warfare the Americans have unleashed on them which is called sanctions and because of that they have been uh forced to become overly dependent on China. So I would not say that Russia has become a Chinese vasal but Russia is very dependent on China and a small number of other nations uh for various things. So it's China, it's North Korea, it's Iran, that's about it, right? And India has uh remained neutral and very autonomous and independent in this matter and we probably are the biggest buyer of Russian oil right now. So we have acted as a pressure release valve for Russia without which they would have become an actual Chinese vasal but in the China Russia relationship they are kind of a junior partner Russia. Okay. So Russia Russia is it find itself with a situation where it's a junior partner to China because of China's enormous economic clout. So that's the deal with Russia. Now how does Russia view the India Pakistan conflict? Russia will want India to do well because that gives us more leverage over Pakist. Now China will be kind of more worried about about India. In just 3 4 days everything has changed. Before the India Pakistan the the 3-day war started China would have been very confident about potential future military uh action against India. Today they'll be super worried right. So that will make Russia happy. It gives Russia more leverage. It gives Russia more options. But Russia is not in a position to come and mediate or interfere or anything. they'll sit and look from afar and they'll be happy about what's happened because Russia and China they have this modus vendi right now they have this u this this arrangement which is not quite an alliance but Russia and China are long-term natural adversaries so right HKumar says all the damage done to Pakistan won't they recover from it within months using loan money was this really our objective I feel we weren't able to achieve what we truly intended. Look, when it comes to Pakistan, the objective for India is to balconize Pakistan. It's to end the threat of the military ISI terrorism complex, the the one unified entity which has multiple faces military, ISI and terrorists. It's the same thing. So our objective obviously naturally the natural objective is to end that. It's to destroy that completely. The objective for India is to once and for all permanently end the threat that the Pakistan terror industry poses for India and the Pakistan terror industry is the military industry and the ISI industry all of that together. So we have to dismantle Pakistan we have to balconize Pakistan. That is the only way that things will end for us in our in our on our terms and we could have been 24 to 48 hours from achieving at least the liberation of PK. Yeah. Uh but Trump came in the way and Modi is very angry about that I can tell you. So our objective was much bigger than this but Trump came in the way and you can't do a thing when the Americans come in the way. Okay. So stop crying about this. Many Indians are very unhappy. Come on deal with it. This is the real world. We have to accept certain things like grown-ups, right? Two guys are fighting. I'm I'm defeating my my enemy, but but a 28t guy comes in the way. Then what will I do? Can't do a thing about it. I'm only 6 feet. He's 28 ft tall. The other guy was 2T tall. So I could have bashed him up. And so that's that's the kind of thing. Uh so the all this damage that has been done to Pakistan, they will buy, beg, borrow, steal whatever they can and they will repair the damage. they will recover from it within 6 months. The runways they will repair them in the next uh I don't know week 2 weeks. Uh the aircraft they will have lost uh that will be much harder to replace those. The nuclear warheads they may or may not have uh lost that will be very hard to replace. But whatever they can recover they will recover using loan money, begging money, whatever. And probably within 6 months they'll be back to square back to where where we were. and they may then restart their terrorist misadventures possibly even before that who knows but this time it's going to be different this time if they indulge in terrorism they're going to pay a very very heavy price and this time probably even Trump will not be able to come in the way so yeah uhar says should bat join GCAP sixth generation fighter jet program with Italy Japan and England should India join this if India joins what are the implications for India and US as Japan is US facad. If you join this then you are essentially be going to be compromised if you use that technology because that technology will be um there's going to be closes in that technology and so on that you have to sign first of all to participate and all of that will be essentially pro- US. Uh so if you see these sixth generation fighter planes etc they are they they use something called networkcentric warfare. So these fighter planes they have this integrated battlesnake, a battle space which which comes from all kinds of sensors which all talk to each other. So you have a floitering drone that is talking to your fighter plane which is talking to your radar which is talking to something else. So it's a whole you get this integrated uh view of the battle space from all these signals that are collected together and synthesized. So the sixth generation fighter player fighter plane if you want it to if you want to participate in that then you will have to buy other weapons and other other radar systems and other other whatnot from them and all of that the Americans will be in a position to surveil right and uh it will have back doors and kill switches and whatnot. So you're going to be compromised if you buy this. The best thing to do is to develop your own technology step by step by step. Right? So we have the the fighter plane which is what 3.5 fourth generation whatever it is maybe fourth generation then you you improve upon that by building the AMCA which is a fifth generation fighter plane then in 10 years you build a sixth generation fighter plane because you learn the lessons each time from whatever you're developing that's the right way to go about it in the meanwhile in the interim while we don't have the fifth generation fighter plane you buy a bunch of Rafals or Sukoys or whatever you want whatever is best for India depending on what the experts decide is best for us that's how you do it you should I don't think India India should join any of these coll collaborative programs or any such thing. India should go its own way independently. Yeshuan says Russia offered joint production of the S500 system with India. Should India now use this opportunity to completely move away from any possibility of purchasing US weapons? I think India should consider this very seriously. If we are offered joint production of the S500, uh it should mean that we get a complete transfer of technology right and then we can possibly manufacture it in India and even manufacture it for Russian usage and the S500 will be superior even to the Russian S400. So I think it's a if if it's a good deal they are offering to us with a full transfer of technology we should very seriously consider it very seriously. Absolutely. Okay. Your boy Pasta says uh ceasefire violation and drone sightings at multiple places. Uh yeah Punjab, Sambar, Jammu and Kashmir and whatnot. Terrible, terrible, terrible. The Pakistanis are asking they're asking for another whooping. Maybe we should give them what they what they desire. Right. Uh, serpent serpent blade 870 says boron possibly from Egypt. US nuclear uh nuclear detection aircraft. Uh, I saw wind from null school considered nuke reaction radiation leak locally. Also, would it be prudent to attack ordinance factories and naval assets? It's prudent to to attack everything that helps the enemy. Everything is fair game. That's fine. Now this boron look we know that some aircraft came from Egypt some aircraft came from the US the aircraft the American aircraft is associated with uh checking for nuclear radiation leaks and all that that we know right uh I don't know if the aircraft that came from Egypt contains boron I don't know who's how do we know that did they tell the world hey hey hey we are sending boron to Pakistan via the US did they say anything like that so I don't know about the boron boron is obviously uh used in nuclear reactors for for uh for slowing down nuclear reactions. So yeah, it it certainly can help in you know u absorbing radiation and and possibly damping radiation. So if it is true then it's interesting. It it would indicate that we have actually uh hit something very sensitive but I'm not sure if we have actual hard evidence that boron has been flown in from Egypt. uh they just says it's high time to start investing more in building in-house military equipments and drones also start investing heavily in social media narrative. Absolutely all these things need to happen in parallel. We have now seen firsthand in real time during war during battles that our indigenous technologies is second to none. It's probably some of the best in the world. the atma river technology that we have been developing in the past few few years and I'll tell you whatever we have achieved all of this just compare it with what our situation was in 2019 like I was saying yesterday in 2019 we did not do that well during the Balacord air strikes we did not film the air strikes we did not film we were not able to produce any any video evidence like we have done this time copious evidence right we were using MIG 31 MIG 21s one of them went down on the Pakistani side P side right we were outmaneuvered. We made a mistake and we ended up shooting down one of our own helicopters right in 2019. This time look at India in 6 years how much has changed in our military capabilities. Who do you thank for that? I thank Prime Minister Modi wouldn't have happened under anybody else. So I think we need to continue this. The Atman Bharat Atman military uh program needs to be carried forward. Now we need to invest more money into this. I think it's time to to double our military budget. It's high time I think to seriously consider doubling our military budget or at least increasing by 50% for the next 5 10 years. Needs to happen. Needs to happen. Imagine what we can do with a double budget. Imagine how much more Atman technology we'll be able to uh build and uh supply our armed forces with. Yeah. So we are we I think we have some of the best drone manufacturers in the world. I think now in India uh that's great. So that needs to get a real boost, a real philillip economically, financially, right? And obviously we need to obviously also invest heavily in in our uh soft soft hard power which is the social media narrative propaganda uh capabilities. Looks like we are not very good at that right now and it's very clear that we are not. So that also needs to happen. Yes. So I completely agree with what the is saying over here. Um okay, Anand says, "Didn't Modi just say we would have had complete control over any terrorist camp in Poke Pakistan? If Pakistan doesn't want this, then they have to dispose of it. That does that just mean that India is just cleaning P now? I Okay, I'm not sure if that was the implication of what Prime Minister Modi was saying. What Mr. Modi says said is that we destroyed a whole lot of terrorist camps and uh if Pakistan continues terrorism then we will destroy everything else as well. That's essentially what Prime Minister Modi said. Uh and he said that uh if we talk to Pakistan we will talk only about terrorism and P nothing else is to be spoken about. There's no other item on the agenda if we ever have talks with Pakistan. That's what he said. I'm not sure about leading P or any such thing right now. He made it very clear to Pakistan any any future or further terrorist activity is going to invite very very heavy and painful action from India. Okay. Um we'll not discuss uh the economy right now but we'll discuss the India Pakistan matter. Rurag says live drone attack again any look I am not watching the news so I cannot confirm anything but uh you guys need to tell me what's happening because I'm right now focusing on your questions I'm not multitasking by I don't have a command center here with like 28 different ski screens and I'm looking at them all okay here there are drone sightings here there is suicide violation no I'm looking here so I don't know if there's confirmation you guys let me know and I will react to that if required um dham G edits says got information right now from inside Pakistan. The drones are still coming in from flights via Turkey and indirect routes. Pakistanis are using all that on us. Yes, that's that's our good friends the Turks. When the Turks when there were earthquakes, devastating earthquakes in Turkey, we sent from the goodness of our heart, we sent rescuers, we sent equipment, we sent medicines, we sent our our NDRF, national disaster thing teams, we sent doctors to help the people of Turkey free of cost, right? We did that for Turkey out of the goodness of our heart. And how does Turkey repairs? by supplying Pakistan with deadly weapons to be used against India. So please my friends boycott Turkey. Boycott Turkey. Boycott Azarbaijan. Boycott these two terrorist friendly nations. Boycott them. You want to go on holiday, go to Greece. If you want to see the Mediterranean coast, go to Greece. Go to Italy. Go to Kefalonia. Go to uh the Greek islands, the Asian sea islands, the Ionian sea islands. Go to Sardinia. Go to these nations. Do not visit Turkey. Do not waste your hardearned money on a nation that supports your enemy. Do not visit Azarbaijan. There are other places that you can visit. If you want recommendations, I'll give you recommendations. So, yeah, that's what we need to do. Suraj says, "Won't Trump again threaten us with trade in future if Pakistan pests India? Can Trump interfere in our discussions on P with Pakistan? How to overcome this?" So the next time we decide to take military action, we need to do it very rapidly, lightning strikes and inflict much worse damage than we've done this time. So it's going to take some time for them to reactivate their air defenses. And anyway, the air defenses don't work. So yeah, it's going to be it's going to be difficult to some extent if we take our time in retaliating to what whatever Pakistan does in the future. It should be decisive. It should be very rapid. It should be crippling. It's Pakistan was already crippled right now. They have no air defenses. They're still helpless right now. We can just fly over Pakistan and they can they will not be able to hit you. So yeah, we'll have to do that again, I suppose. Uh Krishna says, "Today's army briefing was quite chilled out. I didn't see the didn't get the reason why it was held. They didn't provide much details any reason for holding it. Uh I did not watch it but there must be some good reason for holding it. It's not about uh like what we have on India's TV networks that we have to shout and do all that. There are good reasons for doing all these things. It's about putting things on the record and so on. So yeah, I'm sure there was a good reason for it. Uh I will not take questions about religion etc. That's not what I do. So please don't ask that. Please ask better questions. Questions pertinent to the situation. Uh Nikl says why did Modi G agree to ceasefire on what conditions? What are some points according to you that Modi G knew but are not in the public domain? If there is something that Modi G knows and it is not in the public domain, I am not supposed to discuss it. And secondly, I don't know what Modi G knows which is not in the public domain. So I can discuss what is there in the public domain and analyze the situation and draw inferences for it. Right? Okay. Once again this question by Sush was this a perfect question to use a theious aircraft even if it turned out not so great we still would have still got a lot of information and scope of improve improvements from a battle tested aircraft. Now once again let me reiterate we don't know which aircraft we used. Maybe the tis was used. I don't know. Right? We don't know. You have all these YouTubers and social media channels and media channels who are speculating wildly without having any actual information. The government of India, the army, the air force have not put out any statement about which aircraft were involved in the operation. So why are we speculating what was used, what was not used? How do you know? How do these media channels know what was used or what was not used? Let's not speculate like that. So maybe it was used and maybe we have some information. Um okay what are the questions? Uh 180 days transformation that's a good thing 6 months transformation. Uh do you think India's action of often banning world media like BBC Alazer could be one of the reasons why the world media is portraying India as bad? No it's the other way around. We have to sometimes block these channels because of their attitude towards India. It's not the other way around. It is this way around. Okay. Um Di Chri says, "Is there a possibility of India using ASAT weapons against Pakistan?" Now, that's an interesting question. Does Pakistan have spy satellites? Does Pakistan have these deep surveillance satellites positioned over Indian territory? If such satellites do use do exist then it could make sense for us to use our ASAT weapon and blow those satellites to bits but I don't think Pakistan has those capabilities so so it doesn't make sense to use those right now the ASAT weapon can be used for other purposes also like destroying an an incoming ballistic missile so in that case you could perhaps use the kill vehicle of the ASAT weapon for that purpose. But the Pakistanis don't have any uh such satellites that they can use to spy upon India. That's why we haven't used them. Now, Theodore says, "Why aren't we retaliating to the drone attacks?" Uh I think that's a question for the government to answer. I don't know. I'm not sure what's happening right now. It looks like the Pakistanis are are are violating the ceasefire over and over again in small ways, but we'll see. Uh, Chirang Shetty says, "Do you think our prime minister's speech humiliated or angered Aim Munir, hence the drone attack? Now, will Aim Munir have Hitler's downfall this time?" Uh, I don't care whether it angered the fellow or whatever or it humiliated him. Pakistan is humiliated. Pakistan is on its knees with its pants down essentially. Right. Right now, they are helpless. They are defenseless. They have no air defenses. their runways are cratered. They can't even have their fighter planes take off or land over there. They are completely exposed. I know they are totally humiliated. Um and if the prime minister's speech humiliated them further, so be it. Of course, it was humiliating to rub it in their faces, right? And maybe that's why the drone attacks are happening right now. If uh the drone attacks cross a certain limit, I'm sure we're going to retaliate again. Will Asimir have Hitler's downfall this time? Let the gods decide. Let the gods decide what happens to Aim Moner. The thing is, look, why are we obsessing about Aim? Let's say he he's he has a downfall. Then somebody else will come in his place who will be as bad as him. Another terrorist will come will take his place. What difference does it make to you? Whether it is Aim Mun or or whoever else at the head of the Pakistani terror machine, what difference does it make to you? Makes no difference. The only way it will make a difference is they're if they're all eliminated, right? Um, okay. Uh, c dun I don't know what dun is, but ceasefire bio relation. What's a ceasefire bio? Cheese. What's a cheesefire bio relation? I've never seen that term in my entire life. I've seen a lot of things in my life. Cheesefire bioreation. I commend you sir or ma'am whoever you are. Cheesefire bore relation. Um Nishan Singh says why doesn't India support the Kurds at the UN and support Greece openly? There are good reasons for that. There are look at this time we are not that that big a power that we can go around pushing everybody else around and throwing our weight around. Let's mind our business. Look at where our national interest is. and focus only on that. That's what we need to do. I know it is part of our peripheral interests, you know. Yeah, that that's this is the problem because nobody teaches the national interest in school, college, university. So, you have no idea. There are various there's a set of national interests. There are national interests come in various different categories. There's something called core interests or critical interests. Vital interests. Core/critical/vital. Let's call them vital interests. Those are non-negotiable interests. That's one category of national interests. Then there are important interests that are slightly less vital than the vital interests, but they're still quite important. And then there are peripheral interests, but they're all interrelated. So the question of the Kurds and the Greece etc. that's kind of more peripheral than vital. Greece may be more important and not so peripheral but definitely not vital. So that's how it goes. We have to classify and categorize things properly. Uh util card says can Pakistan come with better air defense system after some years and attack India again? If so what should be India strategy? A good question. It depends on who's going to supply these systems to the Pakistanis. The Chinese have supplied their best system to the Pakistanis apparently as far as I can tell and those systems have failed. Then who else can supply Pakistan with better air defense system systems? Will the Russians do it? I don't think the Russians will do it. Doesn't make sense for them to do it. Will the French do it? No way. No way. Will the Americans do it? Now that's a question mark. Yeah, that's a question mark. So yeah, if it if the Americans supply them with better air defense system or if the Chinese improve their air defense systems and supply them to Pakistan after let's say 6 months, one year, then we will have a different set of troubles on our border. Then the Pakistan may Pakistanis may decide to attack India again. So we need to keep an eye on what's happening in Pakistan. We need to have our intelligence operations on top of their game. We need to be know we need to know exactly what's happening in inside Pakistan in real time. We need to have intelligence assets within Pakistan. So we need to do all this and whatever developments happen we need to be prepared for them. So it's a cat and mouse game. It's a cat-and- mouse game. It's an ongoing neverending game. Rashmi says Modi has said that if there are any talks with Pakistan there will either be about Pakistan or Kashmir or terrorism. Did he say this indirectly in response to Trump's offer to mediate on the Kashmir issue? I think it was not indirect. It was pretty direct. Right. Trump has made the claim via his minion Marco Rubio that India and Pakistan have decided have agreed have agreed that they will hold talks at some neutral venue or something like that. said. So this is a refutation of the American claim that if we do talk at some point in time with the Pakistanis, the talks will be about Pakistan occupied Kashmir and they'll be about terrorism, nothing else. So this is a reputation of what the Americans are saying. Yeah. So Trump needs to, you know, take it easy. This is none of your business. If you make it your business, then it's not going to then you're going to have problems in your relationship with us. Uh okay. Geopolitical Dub Dubet says there are reports that Gagyan mission is delayed again. Okay. I'm not aware of that but we will see. We'll see about that. I I'll check it out. This is something that that definitely interests me as you I'm sure you know. So, thank you for letting me know. I'll check it out. Um Singh says on the one hand sir you say that the Indian defense system is the best in the world. On the other you say the Indian forces cannot be compared to even 2000 the the American um forces of the of the 2000s. Aren't these completely contradictory? You have to understand nuance. Viv when I was talking about the 2000s America, I was talking about the overall hard power which is associated with the the US military and the Indian military which is essentially military offensive capability and power protection capability. Right? When it comes to the Americans and their air defense system, they have the Patriot system. They also have the Aegis system that is used to uh that's a point defense system used for warships. So the uh whenever there's a US uh aircraft carrier task force battle group that goes out somewhere they there's a aircraft carrier and there's about 10 more at least 10 more battleships which form a defensive ring around the aircraft carrier with the Aegis system. Now, the Aegis system, I'm not sure if it's ever been battle tested. Battle tested. It's tested in during the manufacturing and approvals process. Sure. But has it ever been battle tested in real combat when there's incoming fire at you? It's not been tested. The Patriot system, it was battle tested once or twice here and there. It's never taken the it's never faced the the quantum of incoming fire like we like the Akash and other systems faced in the last three days the three-day war. So what I said is that the Indian air defense system is the world's best battle tested system today and I stand by what I'm saying. I'm talking about one component of the Indian capabilities. I'm not talking about the overall Indian capabilities. Please learn to appreciate some nuance. It's not contradictory whatsoever. Please, please learn. Please learn. I want Indians to understand things better. It's important that we understand nuance and small subtleties in things. What can I say? Okay. Um, let's take more questions. Uh, Sibin Raj SB says, "How can we tackle America's tariff blackmail in the future? because India seems to climb the escal escalation slowly after Pakistan attack. Uh is there any other possibility? No, you can at this point in time India can do absolutely nothing to counter Trump's tariff blackmail. Take it deal with it. We are 6 feet tall. The Pakistanis are 2t tall. The United States is 28t tall. Look at it from that perspective because nuance doesn't seem to be a forte here. There's nothing we can do for the next 20 30 years about this. Deal with that. So if this hurts you then work as hard as you possibly can. All of us we work as hard as we possibly can to change the situation. Do you understand? This is what is coming in our way. If we had started this process of atmana and what not in 1947 do you think Trump would come in our way today? So you see the process started only recently the last 10 years or so which is why we are seeing rapid progress. We are no longer the India of 2019. We are today's India 2025 which is a whole different beast. Imagine where we will be in 2030. So we have to keep up this rate of progress. Today there is nothing we can do to counter Trump's tariff and trade blackmail. Absolutely nothing. We have to swallow it and we have to bide our time. That's the deal. That is the deal. Rahul says we won. Yes, we won. And this was way larger than Cargill. No question about it. This was orders of magnitude lar larger than Cargill in Cargill. Okay, let's look at the map. We Let's Let's look at the map, right? Because that's the right way of understanding what Rahul is is pointing out. Where is Cargill? Let's let's search for Cargill. Cargill. Cargill. So, here we go in. So Cargill is this small location, small geographical location where you have Tiger Hill and whatnot. Okay, let's uh yeah, there we have it. So it's a small geographical location. Of course, we can zoom out and see it bigger. So that's where the Pakistanis had in the winter of what 98 99 whichever year it was they had taken over stealthily some Indian territories and positions and in this small little location u we had defeated them after a lot of fighting. So that was the cargill war. Now in 2025 the three-day war we have struck Pakistan everywhere deep inside Pakistani territory I don't have the list of uh military installations and terror camps and air force bases and whatever else we have targeted we have hit them everywhere we have hit them at will we've hit them deep inside Pakistan we have hit them in the heart of the military ISI terrorism complex in Rahul Pindi we have hit Nurh Khan air base we've destroyed Saroda we've hit everything we've given all the evidence anybody can want about us hitting them. This is way way way larger than Cargill. This is Cargill was nothing compared to this. Nothing to I'm not trying to take away uh anything from the bravery of our soldiers who fought the Cargill war. But our capabilities at the time were very different and very limited. Very limited compared to what we have today. So you see with economic growth comes military growth and with military growth comes the kind of result we have seen today. Right? That needs to continue. So we what we have achieved is probably the biggest victory since 1971. But there has been no change of the lines on the map. That's the one missing element in terms of destruction to Pakistan. It was way larger than Kaggle. Yes. But Pakistan being Pakistan, they're still spreading the lies that they won. We need to up our PR game PR game. I agree with that. I agree. Absolutely. We need to up our PR game. Now, Akshit says, "Do you think China is unhappy about America's mediation? China is behind the ceasefire violations." I think China is actually happy this stopped. Uh they're not unhappy with us with America's mediation. If America had not mediated today, we would be probably in P and much more. By now, Pakistan would be would have been would have collapsed probably. So, that would be bad for China also. They also have some use for Pakistan. So China is not happy unhappy about the American mediation about Trump coming in the way of India's complete victory. They'll actually be happy about it. Is China behind the ceasefire violations? I can't speculate about that. Who knows? Maybe Trump is behind the ceasefire violations. He doesn't seem to be unhappy about the ceasefire violations. He has not tweeted that Pakistan should stop violating the ceasefire. So maybe Trump is behind the ceasefire violations. I can speculate that way also. Right. Uh Daran Sha says, "What do you make of these minor drone incursions daily? Is it the reconnaissance?" I don't know. It could be it could be just uh it it could be the Pakistan is trying to spite India. It could be the Pakistan is trying to taunt India. It could be the Pakistan is trying to to provoke India into starting the war again, which makes no sense actually at all. But then Pakistan makes no sense actually at all. Right? So I I'm not sure. But uh yeah, it's strange. Paris says, "Will India buy the S400 if Russia is offering it as the West may object?" The West objected to the S400. When we were purchasing the S400, the Americans were threatening Katza sanctions on us. We went ahead and bought it anyway. And I'm sure it's played a role in the three-day war. And I'm sure it's played a significant role possibly in the three-day war with which which we just won. If the Russians are offering the S500 joint production as we hear, I think we should take it very seriously. We should consider it very seriously and I would actually say we should go ahead and buy it and have the production lines set up in India. Not assembly lines but production lines. I think we need to go ahead and do this especially after Trump coming in our way. I think we should go ahead and do that. Uh Priya Ranjanjan says should India explore chances to widen the Siliguri corridor considering the Bangladesh China threat in the northeast. Uh I think we should not open too many fronts of fighting at the same time. We need to be patient. We have so many problems all around. We have internal problems. 100 million Bangladeshes in India and Rohingyas and cookies and Pakistanis and God knows what else. Uh so we have to take it one thing at a time. We cannot start fighting 78 different battles at the same time. Right? Of course, if the opportunity does present itself on on a platter, we should take it. I am not against that. Right? Uh but overall, we should not start new things right now. Let's let's first focus on the Pakistani threat. It still exists. Right? Uh Nikl says in the future, if India decides to denuclearize Pakistan, how can it be done? As we've already hit the entrance of nuclear facility, Kirana Hills, shouldn't we completely take away their blackmail? Look, the Pakistani nuclear blackmail is over. If they really had a plan of using nuclear weapons against India when required, don't you think they would have used them in the past three days in the three-day war? Don't you think they would have used them? We brought them to their knees. We were striking them at will. In in 30 minutes we hit nine Pakistani air bases. The jewel the crown jewels of Pakistan. The air bases. They had so much pride about. We hit them over and over again. Nine air bases in 30 minutes. They were helpless. Our aircraft were flying over over their air bases taunting the Pakistanis. You at that point in time if you don't use your nuclear weapons you're never going to use your nuclear weapons. The Pakistani military blackmail is gone. But of course the question remains about the Pakistani nuclear warheads. Right? So I don't know what the plans are. I am sure we have plans. I'm sure we have contingency plans. Uh we need to have plans or military needs to have plans and I'm sure we have them. The plans should be to how to secure the nukes very rapidly. If Pakistan is breaking up or something and I'm sure we have plans in place for that and I will not discuss them because I'm not aware of them. But let us trust our armed forces. As you can see, they are super professional, super competent, probably the best armed forces in the world. So, let's trust them. I'm sure they have the plans in place. Okay. Um, Ishika says, "Trump gave tariff relaxation to China and China did the same. Is this connected to the three-day war?" I cannot answer this question at this point in time because I haven't studied this tariff. relaxation that's happened apparently quite recently. I haven't studied that yet. I've been focusing on the India Pakistan issue the past few days. So I haven't studied this in detail. I'll have to go ahead and take a look at that and uh yeah then maybe I'll be able to connect the dots. I'm sure everything is to a larger or smaller extent interconnected. So what are the connections? I'm not quite sure but yeah it's something I'll keep in mind and maybe next time we can discuss that. Um okay Jatirya says I was watching Safh electronics YouTube in which in one of the videos they were saying that they are using a thousand-year-old wax molding technique to build blades of the engine B- roll was Indian D statue okay okay interesting interesting for sure uh Motrika says China recently tested a hydrogen non-uclear bomb can this be a threat to us I suppose Anything can be a threat to us. Any weapon can be used in various contexts. So it can be a threat to us for sure. Yes. I am I've not seen the details of this test. I've heard of it vaguely. It's a hydrogen-based bomb apparently, but it's a non-uclear bomb. So you know there's a nuclear bomb that's called the hydrogen bomb. It's actually a fish and fusion fish and fusion thermonuclear bomb. It's got an initial fishision reaction that g that then triggers a secondary fusion reaction and the fusion reaction has way more energetic output than the fish reaction. It's a two-stage process roughly speaking fish then fusion thermonuclear bomb and it's all it was called the hydrogen bomb in the 20th century. Dave Kver says drones are being cited in Jalander, Punjab and Jammu. Why is Pakistan violating the ceasefire? Are they out of their sane minds? I Pakistan are crazy. They're crazy. I I don't know how much we will tolerate this. Maybe we should just restart. We should restart. Tina Yadav says red card penalty etc. Why is Trump silent on the violation of the ceasefire? Why can't he take credit of that? Hate him. Yeah, I I don't think Trump has a lot of uh love or respect in India right now. and what he has done I think it will never be forgotten and right now the Pakistanis are violating the ceasefire and Trump seems to be perfectly fine with that. So yep like they say in Hindi. Okay. Anand says India K against the US. I'm not sure what you're saying, sir, but I have taken note of what you said. I tried. Sorry. I'm so sorry. Please make it more clear then I'll understand. Thank you. My fault. My fault that I could not understand. Um, Mlevin says, "Do you think we beat Pakistan too hard and fast which make which made others look bad? Could we have taken the Russian approach?" No. Doesn't make sense to take the Russian slow war approach, long war approach that they are doing in Ukraine. Completely different context, completely different situation. In the case of Pakistan, we need to have a pulse pose war, very rapid advance, take territory, then stop unilaterally as per our convenience. Before that, obviously, we would take out the air defenses, air force, all all that stuff. So it was already done. The situation was perfectly ripe for the next phase which was the pulse pose war which is taking back P. It has to be done very rapidly. Don't take don't give the chance to the enemy. Don't give your enemy the chance to recuperate or get reinforcements. So our scenario is very different from the Russian scenario. Uh SN says Pakistan did drone attack again in Samba Jammu Kashmir after honorable prime minister's address to the nation. I think they they are really really uh testing our patience and asking for it. I think India should perhaps go ahead and restart operation sindur. Duchma says keeping the history of the temporary nation in mind. It's clear that the ceasefire is not for peace but because their nuclear sites were hit. Do you think do you think the ceasefire is because they tried to push a red button? I don't think they tried to push a red button. Maybe they threatened to Trump that we will push the red button. But if they should have pushed it, they should have pushed it long ago. We brought them completely to to a state of utter helplessness. If you still don't push the red button, you're never going to push the red button. Uh so the ceasefire is not for peace. It's because they they the ceasefire is because the Americans inter interfered. The Americans intervened. See there is speculation that we hit some nuclear storage sites which is uh sites where the Pakistanis had stored nuclear weapons. So it's possible we hit those. Uh we know that Nurhan most likely has nuclear warheads stored. Nurhan air base and we hit that very hard. Saroda possibly they have nuclear weapons there possibly. And the Kirana Hills storehouse there's a bunk set of bunkers in in deep inside a hill. We hit that. So it looks like we may have hit their nuclear storage sites and some warheads may have been destroyed. Very possible. But there's another angle to this. We hit nine Pakistani air bases. The the the crown jewels of Pakistan. We hit nine air bases in about 30 minutes. Right? Some of these air bases obviously will have F-16s. That's an American fighter plane. Now the Americans they have technical and other personnel in place in whatever air base houses F-16s. So wherever you have F-16s in a Pakistani air base there is a set of American personnel over there who babysit the F-16s 24 by7. They never let the F-16s out of their sight. So if we hit air bases where American technical personnel and other personnel are there, what did we hit? Maybe possibly perhaps that's why the Americans came in the way. You know there are things that uh there are multiple reasons why this could have happened. Um now, uh Ashish says, "Why are they sending drones now? Please make it make sense. Let's assume they're not stupid." Okay, that that's that's another perspective we should take seriously. Let's assume the Pakistan is not are not stupid. What's their plan? Is it to drop weapons for terrorists? Uh that could be one plan. But maybe the terrorists have been neutralized when the warfare is happening. We could we can do whatever we want. Maybe maybe it's not to drop weapons for terrorists. Is it for doing recognizance? I think recognizance is not needed. They know exactly what's happening on India's side, right? Maps are available. Satellite imagery is available. Everybody has the commercial commercial satellite imageries available which is pretty detailed and um the past during the three-day war they sent hundreds of drones. Uh so reconnaissance would have been done. The drones not only you are used to drop weapons and bombs and whatnot, but also even if it's a suicide drone, it can collect intelligence and do reconnaissance. So that's already done. So why are they sending drones now? I think they are trying to provoke India into starting starting the war again. And and they know that India has committed to Trump that we will honor honor the ceasefire. So they're taunting us. They're provoking us and they're trying to see how far we will go. And if something starts again, then maybe they can have Trump get angry and blame India for it. Maybe that's the kind of play they are doing. Adicta Singh Takur says my father in army is posted in Satwari Jammu. He said more than 23 battalions are called in Jammu and Kashmir. Is something big going to happen? We'll see about that. I cannot speculate. I cannot speculate. Um Ichino Senpai says a former row official said that India has destroyed Pakistan's nuclear arsenal and all recent earthquakes were caused by Indian missiles started striking their nuclear sites. What are my thoughts? I am not a row official so I cannot speculate further beyond what he is saying. Possible maybe not maybe yes don't know. uh there have been earthquakes recently so it it is not impossible what you are saying that's that's what I can say uh Shri Ramachandraaya Namaha says why are why do Russians sell their weapons to China reverse engineers everything you have no idea how much they reverse engineered everything I have a list somewhere of every weapon the Chinese have reverse engineered they have reverse engineered everything my question is why can't We do that. Anyway, coming back to this question, which is a good question. Why are the Russians still sending selling their weapons to China? Like they have sold the S400 to the Chinese. I can assure you the Chinese will try and reverse engineer that as well. See, right now, Russia has very little friends left. The whole of the West is against Russia, right? And all the other non-western nations, most of them are are arm twisted into being away from Russia. It's only China, Iran, North Korea that are with Russia more or less officially. North Korean soldiers are fighting in the Ukraine war. Iran is selling shahed to drones to the Russians and China and Russia are cooperating in a whole in a whole variety of of ways. So these are the allies that the Russians have. They had Syria as well, but Assad is gone. So the West has taken over Syria and they have placed a professional head chopper as the so-called president of Syria. Apart from these countries, uh Russia has India kind of on its side because we value our age-old relationship, time- tested relationship with Russia. Uh but we are not official allies with Russia and we are also dealing with the west in our own way. So at this point in time, the only major hefty nation the Russians have on its on their side is China. And uh because of these reasons they have to you know make some compromises when it comes to China. If they had the the the choice they would not sell these weapons to China given the Chinese track record of reverse engineering everything. But right now they are in a tight spot. Um Om says why deny a strike on nuclear facilities when the prime minister says we are not afraid of it because you always keep strategic ambiguity. We always keep things ambiguous. Why do you have to put it out there in the public? No need for it. That's what grown-ups do. Uh yeah, we will not discuss Instagram stories today. Amisha says, "Can you explain the role of ISRO in Operation Synindur?" ISRO was not involved directly in operation Synindur, but ISRO puts up the satellites in space right in Earth orbit. And uh the satellites some of them are are designed and built in ISRO. Some of them are designed and built in various other locations and assembled together somewhere else and ISRO does the final assembly of the space of the of the of the satellite within the fairing system of the rocket and all of that stuff. So the satellites our surveillance satellites our so-called spy satellites ISRO is very much uh connected to those either directly or indirectly definitely directly in the in the sense that we ISRO has placed them in orbit. So that's as much as I can tell you. I don't think beyond that there was any direct other role of ISRO in operation synindor. But without ISRO and without this capability of rock of of rockets that can launch satellites and without this technical capability of constructing extremely uh powerful high-end satellites, we would not be in the same position today. U even regarding operation sindur I am pretty sure that the that the satellite and remote sensing capabilities played a very big role in operation sindur but that won't be spoken about okay all right man says I listen to both press briefings by Pakistan and India see we Indians want to listen to everybody before we draw draw our conclusions we that that's the thing about Indians that's a good thing to have. So I am confused about who won. They also claimed they won. They also presented satellite pictures. They said they targeted our S400 and destroyed the Brahmos. See, I'll tell you something, Arman. In case you're not a student, in case you're a grown-up and you have your own money and all, purchase a one month subscription of commercial satellite imagery. It will not be very cheap, but it won't be super expensive. It will not cost you an arm and a leg. So purchase a one month subscription. You can cancel after 1 month. Purchase a one month subscription of any highquality commercial satellite imagery which has images that are refreshed every day or every week or something. And then look at the the latest satellite images of all the places the Pakistanis claim to have damaged or or hit or destroyed. Make your own conclusions based on what you see. I am telling you the Pakistanis are lying. Now fact check what I am saying. Go ahead do this and come to your own conclusions. I'm telling you the Pakistanis are lying. They are making all kinds of claims. They are using doctorred images. They using photoshopped images and most of the images they have not even been able to show. They said that they hit so many places in India. Show us the the proof Baba. Show us. they haven't been able to do that. So my point is it is good to be skeptical. It is a good practice to be skeptical about all kinds of claims and then you need to crossverify for yourself. You need to do the factchecking for yourself. Now I am making the claim that Pakistanis are lying and we are not and I'm telling you how you can verify for yourself. So please sir Arman G please go ahead and do that. That's how we will know who's really telling the truth and who's really lying. Jack Sparrow says, "How do blackouts work?" I mean, why do we need blackouts in cities today? The militaries have advanced GPS systems in current times. So, why do you need blackouts? Why? You see, there is something called GPS jamming, my friends. You need to learn about these things. If you are interested in military matters, there is something called GPS jamming. You can jam the GPS of incoming drones or missiles or whatever aircraft. You can do that. You can jam. The the Americans have dedicated fighter planes with electronic warfare suites on them which do all this jamming. It's possible. We also may have GPS jamming capabilities and electronic warfare capabilities. So in case the incoming drone is now blind, it has no access to GPS. It will still try and strike something, right? And then it'll maybe it's a remote control drone with a camera on it, then it will look for where is the light. In that case, does it not make sense to black everything out. Please look think one layer deeper than what what is apparent at first uh at face value. And now that you're mentioning GPS, that's an interesting thing you've mentioned. You mentioning GPS here, right? Interesting point that you have brought out which has come to my mind now. Do you think our drones, our missiles use GPS? Do you think the Indian harup drones, other Kami Khaza drones, loitering munitions etc. Do you think Indian missiles, Brahos missile and whatever else, do you think they use GPS technology, global positioning system which belongs to the United States? Do you know in the Cargill war the Americans switched off GPS for us and we had to rely on non-GPS means which was nothing at all, just visual tracking. Do you think we'll make the same mistake again? We have our own systems now. We don't rely on GPS. We may have a module inside each uh missile or drone or whatever which uses multiple sources. GPS plus Indian plus Russian plus whatever else plus whatever else. I'm just I'm speculating. I'm not saying maybe we using Russian stuff. But we have our own satellite constellations and all and I think those are reliable. The Americans if they get the chance they'll switch off GPS for us. They may have done it. Who? Who knows? Also, they may have switched off GPS for us this time, but we won't we probably won't mention it. It's a possibility that the Americans may have switched off GPS in the past 3 days for our armed forces and yet it made no difference in case it happened. So, that's the value of having your own technology, right? Okay. Um uh duch atma this is complete speculation allegedly I don't I don't we don't discuss allegedly here okay we don't discuss allegedly stuff here speculation um nationalist says even if operation synindur is is currently paused militarily is there any possibility that the operation is going on hidden from the world inside the Pakistani government's inner fault lines hitting those targets needs someone there. All possibilities are theoretically open and there are things that happen behind the scenes, right? There's a whole world of of what they call black operations out there. Every country that has any capabilities for this does it. Now, we don't discuss that because we have no no knowledge of it. But theoretically, everything is possible for sure. For sure. Um uh okay Priya Ranjan says a bit extreme but is the best way to handle Pakistan simply to hit back periodically under the guise of anti-terror operations as it's going to violate ceasefire every time anyways. Um it's one way of doing things. Uh yeah it's it's definitely one way of doing things. The thing is that it's anyway going to viral the ceasefire periodically. They have a habit of doing that. So I would say every time they vi violate the ceasefire periodically we get a just cause for hitting them back right. So that they themselves are giving us the best way to handle them. So I would say every time they they violate the ceasefire we should hit them. We should hit back. And I would also say that now is the time that every time the Pakistanis violate the ceasefire or try or try to target civilians in Punch or Hajori wherever we should start salami slicing their territory. Take 10 meters at a time. Take 20 m at a time. Salam is slice. Salam is slice. Take the take the first checkpoint, the first uh post that they have, military post. You you go and gobble it up. Then you defend it. Then let's have a gunfight for a for a week. Let's let it let it be. We know how to fight with guns. We know how to fight with mortars. Let's start salami slicing Pakistani territory. I think that's what needs to happen now. They will never learn a lesson unless we start doing these things. Um all right what else okay once again this question um Russia has offered us joint production of S500 at full transfer of technology should we take it what happen then what will then happen to project Kusha so that's an interesting question yeah I I definitely said that we should definitely take the technology if they are offering us this technology we should take it we should do joint production but we should not stop our own development of a similar system So we have this thing called uh project Kosha or whatever the the name is and as you can see we have a tremendously capable air defense system already which has lots of different components that don't really fit together into one integrated package. We have the Barak system. We have the S400 system. We have the Akash system superstar system. We have the Pora system which is the legacy system. We have the L70 system which is an even more legacy system and together these things work brilliantly together but they are not integrated into one package. Now we are in the process of developing something like the S400 which would inre which would include all kinds of other things as well possibly the P3 air defense system etc. So we should continue developing that. We should also acquire the S500 and get full transfer of technology which which which we can then use in the other project the project Kusha and perhaps enhance it. So we should certainly do that. We should not let the existing project uh simply meander away. Um McLevin says I remember that in 2022 we launched the Brahmos in Pakistan by mistake. Was it a way to test their air defenses? Could be but I don't know for sure. Could be. It's possible. Uh okay. Unshul says is there a possibility that the Chinese may have provided the lowest of the lowquality radar system to the to the temporary nation and why is India letting Starink inside? Won't it be disastrous? So the possibility every possibility exists but from what I hear the Chinese had provided the best systems to Pakistan for defending Pakistan against India. So yeah, so I can't speculate about that. Why is India allowing Starlink inside? I think we need to reconsider that very very seriously. We need to reconsider Starlink very seriously. I would say we need to launch our own satellite constellation. We have Jio in India, right? Reliance is Jio. Why can't we have Geolink as a superior competitor to Starlink? give ISRO two years to develop more powerful rockets that can launch a 100 geolink satellites in one go and then create our own constellation with better technology than Starlink. You don't think we can have better satellites than Starling satellites? We certainly can. We should become a competitor to Starling. We should not allow Starling to beam their satellite internet into India because then whenever there's a riot or there's some some kind of insurgency like the whatever then even if you switch off the internet in that area the the enemies of the nation will be able to get Starling access and we cannot I mean even if we tell Starling to switch off the beams in some region it's going to depend entirely on them. So it compromises our national security and sovereignty. So we need to reconsider Starlink very seriously. Very seriously. Uh Amar Deendra DH says they have violated the ceasefire again. They've started attacks with drones again. There's blackout now in Punjab and Rajasthan. What can I say? The government of India needs to do something about this. We can't just sit and take this. We can't just sit and take this. Okay. Mansa says, "Isn't it better to align with China than with the US after what Trump has done? India and China have the world's biggest population. We can do tra we can trade better and push the US away." It all depends on the Chinese the way they behave, Chinese behavior. The Chinese have historically and consistently been anti-India. They fought a war with India in 1962. They fought which we lost. They fought a war in 1967 which we won and no one talks about it. They there were very serious border clashes in Arunachal region in 1987. In 2020 they did the Dclam thing. They have consistently been our adversary, our enemy. They have been the ones starting every fight and they have consistently in the past tried to salam slice into our territory, take bits and pieces. It's only in the last 10 years or so that we have finally de developed infrastructure in the in the northern regions so that the Chinese can no longer salami slice us. And still they may be trying and they support our adversaries. They have they have published papers and books in which they've advocated for the disintegration of India, the bulcanization of India. They are currently working with Muhammad Vinos who goes to Beijing and says that we need to cut off India's far east, India's northeast and and that sort of thing. They have supplied all kinds of weapon systems to Pakistan. They have projects going through going on through P. They conduct joint exercises with the Pakistani military in Pakistan occupied Kashmir. when the do when the the pahelgam attack happens that's not a friendly nation the last year or so they have been making some overtures to India asking for some kind of uh possible reconciliation of sorts and there is now less tension on the India Tibet border and the Kailashhatra may now resume but at the same time they are entrrenching themselves and and and uh and increasing their their military entrrenchment in the northern part of the India Tibet border in on their occupied side. So you know what they would love to have friendship with China but they have a very different approach towards India. So it is because of them that they have we have to uh deal with people like Trump otherwise we would be very happy to have the best of relations with China. We have no cultural issues with China. India and China were never neighbors for 2,000 how long has China existed? 3,000 years three and a half thousand years. We have been such good friends to China and we have given them so much of our culture and civilization right it's their fault they're doing this so we would love to have that friendship back but they don't want it so what can I say so what Mansa is saying is right it would be great if this happens but the Chinese don't want this to happen so we have no choice you see we have no choice okay Now our rules is why isn't India stopping the US from building military bases in Bangladesh because the U because see India is 6t tall Pakistan is 2t tall Bangladesh is 1 ft tall but the US is 28 ft tall can we stop them can we stop them they're too powerful right now they are too powerful says Why is everyone against us? It feels so depressing. The US, China, Pakistan, Bangladesh. It feels so lonely. You see, there are 1.4 billion of us. Why are you feeling lonely? It's a privilege to have no friends. It means you're doing something right. It means everyone when everyone is against you because they are jealous of you. See the western world is jealous of India. They occupied us and leeched the lifeblood out of us for 250 years and we still exist and we don't just exist, we are rising again. They hate that. The West is against us. No question about it. They're not happy about our progress, our growth. The Chinese the same reason. They didn't occupy us. They didn't leech our life blood life us. But they have a very Abrahamic mindset today. the Chinese Communist Party and they see us as the only nation in Eurasia apart from Russia that can challenge them. That's why the thing Pakistan, Bangladesh, well, we know why they hate us. Okay, fine. But I'll tell you what, my friends, nobody else is against us. The nations of the so-called global south, they don't hate us. They would love to see us rise. It will be such a it'll be such a relief for them to have a nation like India rise. Do you think Thailand hates us? No. Do you think Indonesia hates us? Are they against us? They're not against us. They'll be happy to see India rise because we are not a threat and we'll be able to give them more safety than any other predatory hegemonic nation. Even the UAE and Saudi Arabia are happy about India's growth. So I would say that look at the world in a different way. It's not that everybody is against us. Lots of countries are happy about India's growth. Look at all the African nations. Do you think anybody's against us there? Nobody is. It's only certain specific countries that are super jealous of our our continuing existence about the fact that we still have our culture. They haven't been able to destroy it. And the fact that we are again standing up and now especially after what we've done to Pakistan, they'll be super jealous and seething. It's a privilege to have people who are jealous of you. It means you're doing something right. And please remember there are 1.4 billion of us. So don't feel like we are lonely. We are not lonely. We have each other. What else do we need? We have each other. All of us. 1.4 billion of us. Uh Jack Sparrow is saying, "Don't scold me." I don't mean to scold you. I don't mean to scold you at all. He was trying to say gain some knowledge and can nukes be intercepted after being fired after. No, no, no. Absolutely not. Sometimes I get annoyed and all, but it's nothing personal. And I the only reason I'm doing all this is is so I can interact with you all and whatever little understanding I have, I can share it with you all. So uh so if I came across it like I'm scolding you, I don't I didn't mean to do that and you are very welcome to ask as many questions as you want and there are no stupid questions. This is the only way we learn. So please go ahead. Okay. Jaspit Singh says as we know the defense minister of Pakistan has admitted the hand the hands behind the terrorism are of UK of the US and the UK Britain though we know that can we now condemn the US in front of the world we can't uh officially we can't um they're too powerful right now so we will not talk about that they have been behind Pakistani terrorism they have funded and financed Pakistani terrorism the mastermind of the U of the Mumbai attacks 2008 was an American citizen who is an American prison right now. We have an extradition treaty with them but they won't hand him over because they have something to hide. So everyone knows the whole world knows but the whole world tries to disregard what's what's come out in in public. The Pakistani uh fig leaf of plausible deniability is gone. Long gone. It's gone. But because the Americans are so powerful, we will not speak about this as of now. Because like I say, like I keep saying in this episode, we are 6t tall, but they are 28 ft tall and you can't mess with them right now. So let us grow. Let us become 30 ft tall, 50 ft tall, then we'll talk. We'll see. All right. Okay. Samrat Shukla says what should India do within our borders Kashmir especially to fight against terrorism as terrorists get internal support also like logistics manpower communication etc. We need to identify all these networks. All these networks within India. All the enemies within who support terrorism. We need to identify all the enemies within who support our enemies outside of India. And we need to deal with them in full complete accordance with the laws of the country. Right? That's what needs to do. You have raised a very important point. Um there are so many overground workers who seem to have been involved in what happened in Palgam and beyond that there are 100 million possibly Bangladeshes all across India embedded in every nook and cranny and corner of India. You think they are our friends? They're foreigners. They have no allegiance to our our land, to our culture, to our to our civilization, to our country. The moment they get a chance, they'll do something against us. What about the other foreigners on our territory? the cookies, the Rohhingyas, the Pakistanis and God knows who else. You have to evict them all. We need to start a mass deportation program. Once the foreigners are deported, we need to look at the enemies within the citizens who are enemies within. There's a bunch of those also apparently. So, all of that needs to be done. Only then can we have uh safety within the country. Okay. Um Bendra says, "I told India and Pakistan that if you stop the war, we will do trade, a lot of trade with you. If you don't, we will not trade. All of a sudden, they stopped. Yeah, he said that. He said that and I put it out on the screen some time ago. Let me share that again. In the beginning of today's live stream, I put that on the screen. Check this out. Here we have it. Uh, so he claimed that US trade leverage played a role in diffusion tensions between the two countries, saying that we helped a lot. We also helped with trade. I said, "Come on, we're going to do a lot of trade with you guys. Let's stop it. Let's stop it. If you stop it, we're doing trade. If you don't stop it, we're not going to do any trade." So, he's essentially threatened India with trade sanctions. Essentially, he's threatened India with sanctions that we will I will destroy your economy. That's what he did to us. Don't forget that. Don't forget what he has done. Okay. Okay, Universe says uh nuclear blackmail won't work practically. How? They are crazy guys. Even this time probably they got out by saying that to Trump. If they threat if they or if they act, how do we handle? Look, if they wanted to act, they would have acted because we had them on their knees. We hit nine Pakistani air bases, the best air bases they had in 30 minutes. We had destroyed everything, all the air defenses. By that time if you still don't use the your nuclear weapons when will you use it right so it's their nuclear blackmail is hollow they would have obviously threatened threatened Trump with nuclear retaliation or whatever that they will launch nuclear weapons on India but yeah it's all hollow and we have air defenses that that can take out all these missiles so don't worry the so much we have our air defenses are the best in the world today better than the Israeli iron dome we have proven it so let's not worry about the Pakistani nuclear threat One second. Where was this? H questions just fly away. All right. All right. Give me a second. Give me a second. Give me a second. Fire. Pause. Are we going to How are we going to take back P? Are we going to threaten by nuclear escalation? It's not like Pakistan is going to lose their nukes. Let's uh keep P for later. I suppose we're supposed to take it back in the next two three days or the past 2 three days. We'll see about that. We'll see about it. We'll talk about it when it when when the time comes to it. Okay. Uh Shri Watsu says India doesn't seem to buy any German technology even though Germany has ultra ad even though Germany was ultra advanced during the Second World War. Why is that? It's because the Germans are US vessels and they will not sell us their good their best technology. They have good submarines have good good stuff but the the Germans don't have a very good attitude towards India. It's it's visible if you know where to look. So it's it's not a good idea to buy German technology. They have good technology for sure. Okay. Archa says how are citizens of Pakistan how are the citizens of Pakistan not aware of what their nation is doing? I mean do not do they not see international media to know the truth uh and so on. I'm sure the citizens of Pakistan know what their nation is doing and they are fine with it. This is what Indians don't understand. Indians think that the Pakistanis are like us, reasonable people. We don't hate Pakistan. We don't want we don't wish death and destruction on the people of Pakistan. So we assume that the Pakistanis are just like us. Dear brothers and sisters of Pakistan, you are just like us. Is it is it true? The truth is the Pakistanis are our blood. No question. They are our flesh and blood. Same blood, same DNA, same ancestors. But I am certain at least 90% of Pakistan's citizens want us dead. And they're okay with lying and cheating and whatever to have us dead. They are indoctrinated in that way. They see us as the enemy. They want us dead. If there's a terror attack on India, they like it. They celebrate it. Maybe 5 10% of Pakistanis don't hate us. And and I'm glad there are such people that exist. But the overwhelming majority of Pakistan's population hates us. They want us dead. They celebrate terror attacks on us. They know what their nation is doing. And even when their nation loses, they want to say that we have won. And they support their ISI. They support their military. They support their terrorists. They call their terrorists freedom fighters. They call their terrorists social workers. They know everything that's happening. It's not like they don't know what's happening. Please, we need to disabuse ourselves of this delusional thoughts of this delusional um u this delusion that the Pakistanis are like us and they they both sides of the border want things to be well. No, they don't. They want us destroyed. They want us destroyed. Please understand that. Those of those Pakistanis who don't want us destroyed, I'm glad they exist. Of course, some some of them do. There must be 5 10% of Pakistanis who don't want us dead. The overwhelming majority of them want us dead. They want to see us bleed. So, please stop loving Pakistanis to hell with them. Most of them. Okay. Something skeptic says again Pakistan attacked India. Well, well, well, well. We need to do something about this these Pakistanis. Teach them a lesson they'll not forget. Uh let's see. Let's see. That's for the government to look into. Okay. Vira says if Pakistan have said that they have been indulging in terrorism for the US, why is the US still helping them? Shouldn't they be against Pakistan? No. Because you see the world is not like this all goody goody nice nice. If the US has been helping Pakistan, has been using Pakistan as as the terrorist nation for their own benefit, why will they stop helping them? It it See Pakistan has admitted we have been doing terrorism for 30 40 whatever years for the US. It means that the US if this claim is true has an interest in terrorism and wants Pakistan to use terrorism as a an instrument of state policy to advance American geopolitical interests. So if their interests are such that these interests needs need terrorism to be achieved then why will they stop all this? Why will they go against Pakistan? Pakistan has been a good doggy for them. Good nice doggy. You've been doing whatever I wanted. You're my attack dog. Why will I suddenly go against him? Doesn't make sense. Right. Logically, right? uh some questions I will not take. I don't want to get into more controversies for unnecessarily. Let whoever wants to say whatever let them say it. Okay. Minora says don't the Pakistani army feel shame after losing they don't accept loss and they have the audacity to say they won. See from their perspective they are fighting the just a just war and it is said that if something is worth fighting for it is worth fighting dirty for and that is something we should learn from the Pakistanis. We are all all about satya jay the truth has to be told. No if your nation is worth fighting for. It is worth lying for. It is worth cheating for. It is worth stealing for. It is worth fighting dirty for. Please learn this from your adversaries. Please. We need to learn these things even from our enemies. Okay. Money assures us huge drones attacked by Pakistan in several places of Punjab and Jammu. Enough is enough. I say enough is enough. I I agree with you. But uh let's see what the government does about this. I I definitely say enough is enough. Okay, let us take maybe one more question. Let's take one more question. Where do we take it? Uh the one second I was trying to take some question. It flew away. Uh I think this is that clown who I used to kind of like whose way of moving attention from his various blenders like tariffs which wiped out $10 trillion economies from the market. Yeah, Trump may be trying to divert attention away from his failures. Possibly. Possibly. Roshan says after PM Modi's comment that terrorists and Pakistani army will be treated as equal will India declare Pakistan army a terrorist organization. Our actions should declare Pakistan a terrorist organization. Our actions should equate the Pakistani army with terrorists. Forget about words. Indians are obsessed with words. Let's stop obsessing with words. Our actions should tell the world that we consider the Pakistani army to be the same as the Pakistani terrorists. Our actions should speak louder than our words. All right. Okay. Thank you so much for all your questions. I'm going to end the live stream at this point in time. Thank you so much. I know lots of you have questions, but I got to end it here. So, I will see you very soon in the next live stream. Possibly tomorrow. I'll decide tomorrow. Okay. Possibly tomorrow. We'll see. We'll see about that. Anyway, thank you so much. Take care and I will see you soon in the next one.