[music] >> Hello, good evening and good day everybody and welcome to a new history episode of the Oscar busy show. I hope you're all doing great. Let me see who all is there on the live chat and today I'm going to take questions that you have asked in the comments. So for the first couple of hours I'll take as many questions as possible that I can. The good ones, the interesting ones that you all have asked in the comments. There have been lots of those. And then if there's time I'll take some questions maybe from the live chat, maybe from the super chat. So let's see who all is there on the live chat. VSVS 2400, Harsh Rai 009, Ishita Khanna, Akash Spiritual Hacker, MAK4J1U, Kachru 11, She She Shir Upadhyay, Adwait Ashwini, Sumit Agarwal, Harsh Rai 09, Hemi 069, Sumuk Bhupalam, Nabanita Das, good evening. Harsh Rai, good evening. Kachru 11, Namaskar. VSVS once again, Ishita Khanna, Satellite Geopolitical Dubai, good to see you, sir. Who else do we have? Al Janib, Nirvana Shanks, Konnichiwa, Konnichiwa. Um Adwait, hello. Pink Cavallier, good evening, good evening, good to have you, ma'am. Vishnu Mohanan, Nirvana Shanks once again, Gravity Kahai, good evening. In all kinds of colors and fruits, good to have it. >> [laughter] >> Crash and Rise, bonjour, bonsoir, bon whatever else, monsieur. Um Harsh Rai once again, Adwait Ashwini, Akash Spiritual Hacker, good evening. Who else do we have? Uh Arya Vashishta, Isaac Newton is here, good to see you. Isaac Newton, Nirvana Shanks is on Kick, is it? On Twitch, on Twitch. On Twitch, yes. Um Arya Vashishta, Amrit Singh is here from Andromeda. Uh good to have you. Rachna Shringi is also here and Amisha Mishra is here, good to see you, hello. Uh Daksh is also here and everyone else who's also here. Uh Vish Shawn is here. Gajapati Deva, Jai Jagannath from Odisha. Well, Jai Jagannath back to you. Okay. So let's let's get going with the questions. Real Vladimir Putin is here. Swami is here from Jaipur. Are you Singh? Pranam, Sarji, pranam. Okay. And Advocate Samarth Acharya, Namaste, Namaste. Ajinkya Pawar is here from after a long time. Well, good to have you. Good to have you, Ajinkya Pawar. Good to have you. And Rahul Dunakhe also. All right, I will not be able to greet you all individually, but let's get going with the questions. What questions have I picked this time? Let's take a look. What are the questions? What's the first question that we have? The first question is by Really Now. The question is, is Islamic or Arabic architecture actually a thing? If yes, what is it actually? Because I see people calling the Taj Mahal Islamic architecture. Clearly it's made in the Western Indian style or Marwadi Mewari fort style, but more like a palace. The windows, the domes, the courtyards, everything. Even a kalash at the top, that's clearly Indian architecture. So what exactly is Islamic architecture? What exactly is Arab architecture? Arabic architecture? Is that even a thing? Great question to begin with. All right. So first of all, there are various styles of architecture that we see in India. Um in the past 1,000 years, you had two periods of foreign occupation of India. The first period was the Turkic occupation of various parts of India which culminated with the um greatest extent of the Mughal Empire under Aurangzeb. Uh and once that ends, you had the rise of the Maratha Empire which liberated the subcontinent entire almost entirely. And it then it was supplanted by the by the British occupiers of India. So for the for the majority of the past 1,000 years, about 700 or so years, there's been a significant Turkic presence in various parts of India. Not the entirety of India at one time, various parts of India. And because of that there's been what you could call the construction of various kinds of buildings that are said to have an Islamic style or an Arabic style or may mostly Islamic style. The British architects called it or the British historians or whoever, they called it Indo-Saracenic architecture. So if you go to the um For example, if you go to Mumbai, the so-called Prince of Wales Museum which is now called the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Sangrahalaya or something like that. It is said to be in the Indo-Saracenic architectural style. So let's take let's take a look at that. What's What does the building look like, right? Um Chhatrapati Shivaji Vastu Sangrahalaya. All right, this thing. Which is the erstwhile Prince of Wales Museum. So this style that you see here, this is a prime example of what some would consider or some would classify as the Indo-Saracenic architectural style. Which has, according to them, elements of Indian architectural style along with elements of Islamic architecture. The the style of Islamic architecture. So that's the so-called Indo-Saracenic style. But the question really is that when you see a building like this with a dome and what looks like, you know, something that resembles minarets, etc., is this really a fusion of Indian style and and Islamic or Arabic style? To understand Before we understand that, let's see what what uh Islamic architecture looks like according to Google. Islamic architecture, all right? So when we ask about Islamic architecture, this is the kind of imagery we get. This is the Taj Mahal. This is whatever it is, I don't know what it is. This is definitely somewhere in the Middle East, possibly Abu Dhabi. The Grand Mosque, perhaps. Um This is definitely more Persian. This obviously has Persian or um Central Asian elements and so on. So these domes Domes in these styles are considered to be Islamic architecture today. But is it really Islamic architecture? What about architecture? Arabic architecture. So once again it will show you these domes. See, once again it will even show you the Taj Mahal as an example of apparently Arabic architecture. But is that correct? So for that, let's let's do a different kind of search. Ancient Saudi architecture. Now see what happens. Look at this. This is the original Arabic or Islamic architecture. Rectangles, squares, squat shapes. You don't see domes here. Do you see domes? You will not see domes anywhere in this. So this is the true Islamic or Arabic architecture style. Even in modern buildings, okay, you will see the same kind of shapes. Squat shapes, rectangles, maybe cylinders and so on. You don't see any of the domes that you know, Google will tell Google will show you when it's giving you examples of Islam so-called Islamic architecture. What about ancient Omani architecture? Well, once again you see the same squat shapes, mostly. The same squat shapes again, rectangles, etc. What about ancient uh Qatari Qatari architecture. Once again, it's going to show you the same old squat shapes. So this is the actual original Arabic or Islamic architecture. Go back to Saudi. This is the true original intrinsic Islamic and Arabic architecture. This is what it looks like. Okay? And when they show you domes like what we have with the Taj Mahal, this is not Arabic architecture. This is not true Islamic architecture. This is the elements what we are seeing here is the elements that the Arabs and and Islamic architects or whoever incorporated from non-Arabic non-Islamic cultures such as India. These domes are are signature of our signatures of Indian architectural styles. And then this was brought back into Arabia. And today if you see modern Islamic architecture, it will look very much like you know the domes of the Taj Mahal etc. So these styles were imported from India. >> [snorts] >> Okay? This is not or genuine intrinsic Islamic or Arabic architecture. This is Indian architecture which has influenced the Islamic world essentially through throughout the Islamic world. If you see something like this, well this is this is the Hagia Sophia if I'm not mistaken. The Hagia Sophia mosque in Constantinople. Well this was the Hagia Sophia church. And this was European Byzantine architecture. But forget about that. We'll we'll look at this. So what we see here is actually a mosque in the Middle East which has elements of Indian architectural styles. Which is inspired by Indian architectural styles. So the Taj Mahal is Indian architecture. It is not Arab architecture or Islamic architecture. Let's be very clear about this. All right? The domes came from India. You also have domes in in Gandhara in Afghanistan. What about Central Asian Central Asian, okay? Central Asian Islam What am I writing here? Central Asian Islam Islamic architecture. Well you see these mosques like the Bibi Khanum mosques mosque etc. Okay? What about uh Timur's Mausoleum? Mausoleum. So you will see Yeah, this. Once again it has the dome etc. All of these styles came out of India. These monuments that were built in Central Asia were mostly built by slaves who were enslaved in India and taken to Central Asia. And they chose the right kind of slaves. They chose women and children for I suppose you understand what reasons. But they also chose highly skilled craftsmen, architects, workmen etc. who who would be able to build construct buildings, design and construct buildings such as these. Um And the The interesting thing is that a lot of these buildings in Central Asia okay, which are Islamic monuments, you will see swastikas swastikas embedded in the designs of these buildings. Which is also very interesting which again points to Indians having built these monuments. Okay. So I hope that throws light on this matter. Next question is by Rushabh Tari. Who were the Romani people? So I have spoken about the Romani people in the past, but it's been a while. It's been quite a while that I've spoken about the Romani people and I'm sure there are lots of new viewers on the channel who are not aware of what I've said in the past about the Romani people. So let's take this question all over again a priori. Who were the Romani people? What was their relation to ancient and medieval India? Were they part of the slave trade of Turkic invaders of Central Asia? How did they reach reach Europe? Was it through crusades? The trade of Slavs as slaves originating word slavery or any I mean you're trying to put everything in there. What role did they play in in Europe? How and why were they persecuted by Adolf Hitler's Holocaust policies? Um Tell their persecution and survival story like that of the Jews. No, it's very different from the Jews. Very very very different. And can you mention a few prominent Romani people? Okay. The Romani people. Let's begin with some prominent Romani people, shall we? Let's ask Google. You know, famous Romani people. Fa- famous Romani people. So let's take a look at this. Charlie Chaplin, Romani. Ian Hancock. Yul Brynner, very famous actor. Uh Michael Caine, Rita Hayworth, very famous uh Hollywood actress. Alba Flores. Alba Flores, in case you don't know she uh Spanish actress who plays the role of Nairobi or something in Money Heist or something. Jesús Castro. Uh Michael Caine. There's there's way more list of Romani people. List of Romani people. Okay, let's see here. What about artists? Sandra Reath, boxers, footballers. Oh, so many. Ricardo Quaresma. Uh Freddie Eastwood, of course. Uh Eric Cantona, very mercurial very famous French footballer. One of the all-time greats. One of the all-time great footballers for Manchester United. Eric Cantona. Uh Where is Hristo Stoichkov? H H H H H H H. E F G H. Okay, Hristo Stoichkov is missing from here. What about Rita Hayworth, very famous Hollywood actress. Yul Brynner, once again very famous great uh Hollywood actor. Bob Hoskins, one of the greats. Charlie Chaplin, I mean I don't have to introduce who that is to you, right? Musicians. Robert Plant of Led Zeppelin. My God. I mean in his youth he used to look like a Viking with his blonde hair and blue eyes, but he's of Romani Romani origin. Bebe Rexha, Azis. Um I mean just the list just goes on and on. So I mean so many. Talat Pasha, who we who we will discuss later today. Talat Pasha. One of the three one of the members of the Turkish triumvirate. The Young Turks triumvirate. The three Pashas. Um and so much more. Okay. So these are some of the famous Romani people. I'm sure I've missed a lot of these name lot of the name. Andrea Pirlo, one of the great Italian footballers. Yes, Andrea Pirlo. Hristo Stoichkov. Uh Croatian footballer who took who took his country to the semi-finals of the 1996 Football World Cup. He scored a free kick against Germany, a left footed curling free kick that went into the right corner. Because that's what life and so much more. So now that's a small number of examples of famous Romani people. Now who are these Romani people? Romani people are of Indian origin. They are a very badly persecuted class of people in Europe. Now let's talk about their history. What are Indian origin people doing in Europe? And now they're all across the world, okay? But they were in the past 1,000 years living in Europe. How did they end up in Europe? Indian origin people. So there are various theories. We know for sure that they are of Indian origin. Their genetics are unmistakably unambiguously what they call Indo-Aryan. Okay? Whatever that means. Um Genetically they they they they they are very closely related to the people of Western and Northern in North North and in Northern Western India. Gujarat, Sindh, um Rajasthan, Haryana, Punjab, these regions. Okay? The Romani people are most closely related to the people of these modern Indian states. Um The Romani language is classified as a as a pure Indo-Aryan language. And if you look at Romani people, many of them look very very Indian. Uh Alba Flores for example, okay? Let's let's see Alba Flores. Alba Flores, Spanish actress. I mean she's Spanish, but I mean take a look at her. If she's walking around in the in a street in India, nobody's going to think she's she's a foreigner, right? Alba Flores and yeah, so many other examples. So they look very clearly Indian. They speak an Indian Western Indian origin language. Their genetics are unambiguously Indian. So how did they end up in Europe? And there are multiple theories. So uh the first Romani person to get a PhD to earn a PhD is Dr. Ian Hancock who wrote the book We are the Romani people which I have recommended multiple times. And according to him, according to Dr. Ian Hancock, the Romani people are of Rajputic origin. That's what he says. So what's it mean? It means that they were the descendants of warriors. The the Rajputs of Western India. And maybe they were enslaved by the Turks. And maybe the Turks took too many slaves and then they released some of them and forced them to go westwards into Europe rather than go back in eastwards into India. That's one theory. Another theory is obviously rather be similar that whether or not they were of Rajput origin, they were of Western and Northern Indian origin. And we know that the Turks took millions of Indians as slaves. Uh you know uh the Ghurids and the Ghaznavids and so on. And they would take the slaves Indian slaves mainly you know, women and children, but also males who were skilled artisans and craftsmen and architects and musicians and whatnot. And they would take them across what is now called the Hindu Kush mountains, which killed lots of Hindus. That's why it's called the Hindu Kush mountains. And they would be sold in the slave markets of Samarkand, Bukhara, etc. in in Central Asia. And it's possible that maybe the Turks took way too many slaves than they could accommodate. And then instead of massacring them on Turkic soil, they may maybe decided that, "You know what? We will release them, but we will not allow them to go back to India. We will force them to go westwards." And that's how these people eventually ended up in Europe. And the past thousand or so years they've been Europe in Europe. And the initially the the people of Europe regarded them as descendants of Egyptians. Egyptians became Egyptians became Gypsies. Right? So, that's why they are called the Gypsies because the Europeans initially believed that they were of Egyptian origin. And in Europe they have faced terrible, horrific persecution for the past 1,000 years. Much worse persecution than the Jews have faced. The Romanis have been enslaved. The Romanis have been massacred. The Romanis have been genocided. The Romanis, even in the best of situations and circumstances, have been treated like outcasts and second-class not even second-class citizens, non-citizens. Not allowed to assimilate and not allowed to live within society as a distinct ethnic group. Forced to live on the margins and fringes of society. Many of them were forcibly assimilated into European society by being made to you know, lose their ethnic and cultural identity. The Romanis, wherever they went, they had to adopt the local religion. So, if you look at Turkey for example today, okay, which is at the crossroads between what's apparently the line between Europe and Asia. If you see Turkey, at least 5% of Turkey's population is of Romani origin. And they're all Muslims. All of them. Many of them, you know, are are various kinds of skilled crafts people. Many of them are are high-quality musicians and so much more. Um then you have lots about maybe 10% possibly of Romania's population is of Romani or Gypsy origin. And they are very badly persecuted there. So, what happens is that, you know what? You take a bunch of people, you force them to to live on the fringes of society. You don't allow them to to play a proper role in society. So, you force them on the margins. You don't allow them to have a proper occupation, gainful occupation. You don't allow them to to be a regular part of society. You make sure that they have no source of income. You make sure that they have no citizenship. So, what will these people do? How will they ensure that there is food on the table? Eventually they will have to turn to criminal behavior. So, then you will stereotype them as criminals. And that's what's done in Europe. The Romani people are stereotyped as as criminals and petty thieves and whatnot. And uh you know, there's this tremendous stigma stigma and bias against them. Where whichever country the Romani people live in, the police are special, you know, especially harsh on them. Uh in many countries they don't even have citizenship documents. They live in uh wandering caravans and so on. And in some countries they have been able to assimilate better while maintaining a a distinct identity. See, there's two kinds of assimilation. One one kind of assimilation is that where a group of people is made to forcibly lose their identity and assimilate. So, you are the Romani people. You have to give up your language. You stop speaking your language. You stop practicing your religion. You stop calling yourself Romani. You marry among the locals and become white. That is the erasure of identity. That's been attempted on the Romanis. And another kind of assimilation is where you are allowed to to become an integral part of society, to play an integral role in society like all other people, but you're allowed to maintain a distinct identity. For example, if you look at France today, you have Algerian origin French people who maintain a distinct identity. We are Algerians. We are Muslims. But we are also French. If you look at the United Kingdom, you have Bangladeshi Pakistani origin Muslims who retain their Bangladeshi and Pakistani identity. We are Bangladeshi origin people. We are Pakistani origin. We are Muslims and then we are British. So, see you see, they are they are playing a central role in society. They are not on the fringes on the margins of society. But they maintain their distinct identity. That has never been allowed for the Romani people. Never. Uh in some some countries they've been able to, you know, they've had better luck. For example, like I said, Turkey. In Turkey they have been allowed to, you know, quietly keep their Romani identity as long as they convert to Islam. And as long as they don't shout from the rooftops that we are different. So, in in Turkey, the Romani are actually treated kind of better than the Romani are treated in in Europe as long as they uh convert to Islam, which they have all all converted. And as long as they don't claim to be a separate entity. As long as they say that we are Turks, there's no problem. In Spain, the Romani are are kind of better off compared to other countries. Um you may have heard of the Spanish national music, flamenco music, Spain's national dance, the flamenco dance. It's not Spanish. It's Romani. Okay? Spaniards did not invent flamenco music or flamenco dance. The Romani people invented it. One of the most prominent forms of uh you know, jazz in the world is Gypsy jazz. Um one of the greatest of the Gypsy jazz guitarists was uh Django Django Reinhardt. What does Django mean? The Let me show you. Django Reinhardt, one of the greatest guitarists of all time. Django Reinhardt, okay? He played with only two fingers because he had he had lost the use of two fingers, the last two fingers of his hand, in a fire accident. And despite playing with only two fingers, he was one of he was one of the greatest guitarists of all time. As you can see, he looks very Indian. His name was Django. It actually means Jago. What does Jago mean? It means wake up. I think we all understand that, right? Jago. So, that became Django. It became Europeanized. Um Yeah. And so, the Romanis have been great musicians. Robert Plant is one of the greatest vocalists in rock music of all time. Um Django Reinhardt, one of the greatest guitarists of all time. Biréli Lagrène, another great guitarist who is a contemporary of ours. Uh so many great musicians, so many great actors, Rita Hayworth, Charlie Chaplin, Yul Brynner, so many great singers, Elvis Presley. Presidents of the United States. There is a Romani origin president of the United States. His name is William Blythe. Have you heard of William Blythe? Let me show you. William Blythe. Um Okay, William Blythe III. >> [laughter] >> Bill Clinton. What was his name at birth? He was born what? Let's see. He was born William Jefferson Blythe III. Okay? His father is William Jefferson Blythe Jr. Um what's his uh background? English and Scottish. Ha ha ha The Blythe family is prominent Gypsy family in England. See, you will find a lot of erasure of Gypsy identity. Because many people did it voluntarily because they were afraid of being outed as being Gypsy because then it would bring a lot of stigma against them. So, they would try to hide their Gypsy identity. That's why lots of famous people have been confirmed that they are Gypsy even though it's known that they are Gypsy, you know, uh that sort of thing. Uh so, that's kind of the story of the of the Romani people. Indian origin people. A lot of them have assimilated through blood, through intermarriage, etc. and they've become almost white. Um former president of Brazil also was of Romani origin and there's Romani origin people all across the world today. Many of them may not be aware of their ancestry. Many of them would be aware of it. They would try to hide it. And some of them are proud of it, especially in Spain and in some parts of Europe where, you know, being Gypsy, being of Romani origin, as as long as you are famous and rich person, is kind of regarded as cool, perhaps. Perhaps to some extent, especially if you are very rich, like some flamenco dancers and so on. So, that's kind of this thing. And now about the what happened to the Romanis compared to what happened to Jews. The German the Nazis tried to exterminate the Romanis. The Nazis tried to exterminate the Romanis just like the same way they tried to exterminate the Jews. Okay, so but the Jewish persecution is is celebrated or remembered across the world as the Holocaust. But what happened to the Romani people is suppressed. There is this guy called Elie Wiesel or whatever, okay? Let's see his name. Elie Wiesel. Wiesel. This fellow. Okay, Romanian born American etc. blah blah blah. Um, Holocaust survivor. Now, what about the Rom- you know, let's see. Romani Romani Romani publicized Okay, so this is now being suppressed. What he did, this fellow, Elie Wiesel, is being suppressed. See, Wikipedia no longer has references to that. Romani denial Okay, let's see. Not Romania, Romani denial. Elie Wiesel did not deny the Romani >> [laughter] >> Uh, very funny. I don't trust any of these stupid AI systems. Um, he tried his best. See, there was this Holocaust memorial that was you know, a Holocaust mem- memorial was supposed to be built in the United States or something and many people wanted the the massacres and the genocide of the Romani people also to be included in that and this guy was against that. So, he was like, you know, the Holocaust is only for the Jews. What happened what the Nazis did was only for the Jews and we must not remember what happened to the Romanis. We don't exactly know how many Romani were killed by the Germans but the by the Nazis. Possibly over a million. And what is this called? So, the Nazis have So, the Jews have something called the Holocaust of the Romani. What is that called? Romani Holocaust. It's called the Porajmos, right? Porajmos. Not sure what it means. It's called the Porajmos. Porajmos. That's the Romani Holocaust. It was also called the Kali Tras or something. Kali Tras. Yeah, Romani Holocaust. I think all Indians can understand what this word what this term means. So, the Nazis tried to exterminate the Romani. Even though the Romani were actually more Aryan than the Nazis. Uh, so yeah, that's the story of the Romani people. And today they are still persecuted horribly in many parts of Europe. In very civilized parts of Europe. They are not even second class citizens. They are non-citizens in many places. They don't even have They are not even allowed to have citizenship documents. And that is what democratic Europe that lectures the world about human rights does to the Romani people who have been living there for a thousand years. Anyhow, that is the story of the Romani people. Sahasrarai Okay, the question is Sahasrarai says, "Which are the descendants of the Scythians nowadays? Did the Shakya clan from whom Gautama Buddha came, does it have a connection with the Scythians? Who are the descendants of the Scythians nowadays?" I would say all people in northern and western India or the northern and western subcontinent which starts from Gandhara, Afghanistan all the way to Sindh, Balochistan includes Punjab, Haryana, Kashmir, Rajasthan, Gujarat Sindh Khyber Pakhtunkhwa etc. All of this region I would say the overwhelming majority of people in this region will have some Scythian ancestry. No question about it. Because the Scythians ruled these regions. They were the great Mahakshatrapas. The western satraps. The great rule You know, they were great defenders of India. They have gave us some of the greatest kings we had. They were mainly Shaivites. The Mahakshatrapas who ruled in western India were the lords and guardians and protectors and servants of the great Jyotirlinga of Somnath and so on. So, most people in the northern and western subcontinent will have some Scythian ancestry. You will not find anybody who's pure Scythian. There's no such thing as a pure ethnicity, pure but the Scythians were themselves of Indian ancestry. When the Scythians came to India, assimilated into into Indian society, there is not one record anywhere of any clashes between Indians and Scythians because we were the same people essentially. Um, so yeah, that that's about the descendants of the Scythians. Now, the Shakya clan. See, Gautama Buddha is called the Shakyamuni. Right? Shakyamuni. Uh, you will see lots of literature you know, calling him the ski- the Shakyamuni instead of Gautama Buddha. So, that's one of the epithets epithets of Gautama Buddha, Shakyamuni. And that's because he was descended from these Shakya clan of northern India. The Shakya clan you could say Shakya was the Shakya people were a clan in um it was kind of a Janapada, not a Mahajanapada but a Janapada, you know, a self- governing uh, small republic kind of thing in northern India parts of which are now Nepal currently. In in more recent times in the past couple of hundred years. Uh, but now the question is the Shakya people to whose lineage Gautama Buddha belonged were they related to the Scythians? That's the big question. So, Gautama Buddha, let's understand the chronology. Chronology. How does it work? See, chronologically we have Gautama Buddha who lives maybe in the 6th century BC, maybe 5th century BC. Let us say roughly approximately 500 BC. Okay, roughly, give or take. We don't know exactly what the specific years were but let's say roughly 500 BC is Gautama Buddha's time. When did the Shakas the Scythians re-enter India after a long period of like 2, 3,000 years of wandering in Central Asia. When did the Scythians re-enter India? The Scythians re-entered India maybe about 200 BC or 150 BC. Right? And the Scythians started entering India because of pressure from the Kushans. And the Kushans were pressurized pressurizing the Scythians by coming westwards because of pressure from the Huns. If you look at the map, it will make it will make more sense. Where is map? Yes, let's find map. Um, all right, here's the map. So, let's understand the chronology. Around 500 BC in northern India we have Gautama Buddha who's living. Now, in the region which is now Mongolia, in this region you had a group of people called the Xiongnu Xiongnu. The Huns. They were the ancestors of of of the Mongols of today and also the Turkic peoples who live in various parts of the world. So, the Turks and the Mongols have the same ancestors, the Huns who lived initially, originally in the region that is now Mongolia. Now, the Huns suddenly around 500, 400 BC they become a big powerful force and they spread out westwards. Now, in the Tarim River region, in this region, in what is now so-called Xinjiang occupied by China, you had the Kushans who lived here. At this time this region was more fertile, you had more uh, the the Tarim River was very, you know, it it it was a major river in the Kushans they lived in this region. So, the the Huns start coming westwards so the Kushans are forced to flee westwards because the Huns were more powerful. And they start going into into parts of the of Central Asia where you had the Scythians who were living for like 2,000 years. So, the Scythians were less powerful than the Kushans so they start going southwards into the subcontinent where you had in the northern and western part of the of the subcontinent at the time you had Indo-Greek kingdoms. So, the Scythians start pressurizing the Indo-Greek kingdoms and slowly replace them, defeat the Indo-Greeks and become the rulers themselves slowly slowly. So, the Scythians enter India, the Shakas enter India maybe 200 BC, maybe 150 BC. Around that time. But that is much later than 500 BC when Gautama Buddha lived in northern India. So, the Scythians come later. And the Shakyas are come much before. The I'm not saying the Scythians suddenly appeared out of nowhere 150 or 200 BC. The Scythians were living in Central Asia far away from north India. But in north India at the time 500 BC we had a clan called the Shakya people, the Shakya clan clan. So, most likely there is no connection between the Shakya people of northern India and the Scythians who were then at that time in Central Asia. Most likely no connection. Some historians will tell you that maybe the Shakya people are connected to the Scythians, maybe they are a branch of the Scythians, they were a branch of the Scythians, maybe they were descendants of of the Scythians, but that's highly unlikely in my opinion based on the chronology that we have just discussed. So, the Shakya clan most likely did not have a connection with the Scythians. Kante says, "Can you make a video on the Alans tribe, please?" I will Let's discuss the Alans tribe. It's not a tribe. It's not a tribe. It's a It's an ethnicity, let's say. So, Alzat, what is Alzat? The Alzat people were Jats. Now, I have made I have video clips on this channel in which I explain the origins, the possible origins of the Jat people. So, I'll not go into all that all over again. But, the Jat people are people who even today live in large parts of the subcontinent, northern and western subcontinent. Right? Including India and Pakistan. Some of them are Muslim, some of them are Hindu, some of them are Sikh. Right? We have very famous Jat people. Including Maharaja Ranjit Singh. Right? The founder of the Sikh Empire. And and many more famous Jat people. So, the Alzat people who lived in West Asia were descendants of the Jat They were Jats themselves. So, you see, according to Islamic sources, Arabic Islamic sources, the Alzat people, they came from the Indus, the Sindhu Valley region, the Sapta Sindhu region, but southern part of that, which is Sindh-Balochistan. And they went westwards. They were settled by the Sasanian Empire in various parts of you know, southern parts of Persia. And after the attempted invasions of Sindh by the Arabs, more Jat people went westwards into West Asia. And even before the attempted invasion of Sindh by the by Bin Qasim etc., you had Alzat people living in West Asia. And it is said by by Islamic chroniclers and historians that the prophet of Islam, Prophet Muhammad himself had dealings with Alzat people. Now, what kind of dealings you can look it up themselves You can look it up yourself. I'll not go into that. Uh but, various kinds of dealings with Alzat people. So, it's Indian origin Jat people who were living initially in the southern part of the Sindhu River Basin, the Sindh and Balochistan regions, who then went traveled westwards and settled in southern parts of Iran, then they settled in Iraq. They were present in Arabia during the time of the prophet of Islam. And eventually they simply assimilated into Arabic society and into Islamic society. They obviously converted to Islam. They fought in many battles and there was a Alzat rebellion also. Uh against one of the caliphates. Was it the Abbasid or Rashidun caliphate? One of those one of those two caliphates. And eventually, after the the quashing of the Alzat rebellion, many of the Alzat people were forcibly relocated from West Asia all the way to to to what's now what was then the Byzantine Empire. So, they were they went further westwards. They were taken further westwards and they were settled in in what is now parts of Turkey. Right? So, Indian origin people all across the place, all the way from Sindh and Balochistan into southern Persia, further west into various parts of Iraq, then further west and south into the Arabian Peninsula, all the way westwards to uh to the Judea region, and further west into uh what is now Turkey. All across this place, you had Alzat people who uh were settled in these parts of the world. Eventually, they simply assimilated into the local populations and um today, we don't know who are the descendants of the Alzat. Or maybe we do, some of them. Some of them maybe uh you can tell. I mean, if you look at see, there's a reason why a lot of Arabic people look Indian. There's two reasons. One, they could be descendants of the Alzat people, of the Jats. Two, the other obvious reason is because the the Arabs took a lot of Indian women as slaves. And the offspring of those women obviously will have Indian appearances. Right? So, you will see a lot of Arabic people looking Indian. Some of them look like uncles from Haryana. A great example is Saddam Hussein. >> [clears throat] >> Have you seen what he looked what he looked like? Saddam Hussein, the late uh dictator of Iraq. I mean, he looked like a typical in you know, elderly gentleman, middle-aged gentleman from let's say Haryana. Saddam Hussein. What did he look like? Oh my god, they've chosen the worst possible image. This gentleman, he has a distinctive Indian appearance, doesn't he? Um Saddam Hussein al-Tikriti. Oh yeah, there there he is with a cigar. Nice. So, uh Saddam Hussein, he looked definitely Indian. His sons, one of his sons' names, what was his name? Uday Uday Hussein, right? That's a Sanskrit name. Um so, it is said that Saddam Hussein was of Alzat heritage. Okay, Saddam Hussein Indian ancestry. Um Qais al-Ghazali Saddam Hussein DNA analysis proved his Indian origins. So, this is this is apocryphal evidence. It's not definitive evidence. It is somebody saying that some analysis happened and it proved his Indian origins. The Americans most likely did DNA tests on Saddam Hussein's DNA samples, but we don't know what the results were. But, it looks like he was of Alzat ancestry. So, that's kind of about the Alzat people. They were Jats from India who settled all across West Asia and the Arabian Peninsula and even Turkey, the the regions that were part of the Byzantine Empire. And then over time, they simply assimilated into the local populations. And some people clearly still you can see that they have Indian ancestry in these parts of the world. So, that's about the Alzat people. They are not a tribe. They are the Jats. The Jats are not a tribal people, right? What's What's a tribe? What's the difference between a tribe and something else? A tribe, the definition is that it's a small, isolated group of people who live in a way that's isolated from the rest of humanity. That's a tribe. Now, the Alzat The Jats are not not a tribe. They're not a tribal people. They are a big, large, robust uh you could say subset of the Indian population. All right. Shub says, "Can human-made tools discovered in Tamil Nadu that date back to 3 lakh years, 300,000 years before today, can that challenge the out-of-Africa migration theory? Does it mean possi- possibly that humans may have originated from India?" Okay. So, we have stone tools that have been found in I forget the name of the place. One place in Tamil Nadu, another place in Karnataka. And these stone tools date back not 3 lakh years, they date back potentially 1 and 1/2 million years before today. 15 lakh years before today. 15 1.5 to 1 million years before today. That's What is it? I don't Okay, I forget the name, but yeah. So, you have stone tools made by archaic humans that have been discovered in various parts of India, Tamil Nadu as well as Karnataka, that date between a million to a million and a half years before today. That's way before the so-called out-of-Africa migration. The out-of-Africa migration is said to have happened between between 80 to 55 thousand years before today. Less than 1 lakh years before today. Right? But, we have stone tools in India that date back potentially million and a half years before today. Million and a half years before today. So, does that completely destroy the out-of-Africa migration theory? Does it now? And we also have uh fossil human remains from the Narmada from the Narmada Valley that date back to what, 3 lakh years before today? Roughly 300,000 years before today. Now, what is all this? Does it not destroy debunk the out-of-Africa migration theory? The thing is this, the remains that we find in the Narmada the Narmada Valley, those remains are not of Homo sapiens. Those are remains of Homo erectus most likely, an archaic human species. And the stone tools that we find in uh Tamil Nadu and Karnataka that date back to a million and a half years before today, those once again were most likely made by Homo erectus. They are very similar to other stone tools you find in other parts of Eurasia, which are definitely made by Homo erectus. So, these are archaic humans who lived in the Indian subcontinent before Homo sapiens emerged in the fossil record. So, the oldest evidence of Homo sapiens is about 400,000 years before today in Jebel Irhoud, North Africa. That's the oldest fossil remains that we have of our species. Okay, modern humans, Homo sapiens. So, these human-made tools discovered are not made by Homo sapiens. They are made by an older archaic species of humans. Obviously, our relatives, but not our ancestors. Our relatives, not our ancestors, Homo erectus. And that is fine. That does not have any consequence of the on the out of Africa migration theory, which is a theory with evidence, which has evidence, obviously, that's why it's widely accepted. And this theory is about the dispersion of Homo sapiens out of Africa. It doesn't say anything about Homo erectus or Homo anything else, Homo neanderthalis, etc. It's only about how Homo sapiens, us, us, how did we emerge out of Africa and populate the world. That's the out of Africa migration theory, and I've spoken about it many times, so I'll not go into the details. Uh but that's the deal. Okay, so these stone tools, they didn't do not challenge the out of Africa migration theory. They don't uh mean that humans originated in India, nothing like that. Look, if new evidence appears, I will revise my understanding of how the world is. But based on the best evidence that we have today, the out of Africa migration theory is the best theory that we have so far. In the future, if more new evidence emerges, maybe genetic evidence, maybe archaeological evidence, maybe fossil evidence, or whatever, then based on that, I will be happy to revise my understanding of the world. But right now, this is the best theory. Okay, Rohan B says, "We know that ancient Indians during the Vedic period relied on oral tradition to pass on knowledge. What could have been the potential hurdles which prevented our ancestors from storing information in the form of writing? And when did Indians actually take up writing? And I request last week's science special was one of your best episodes in recent times. Science has few takers, unfortunately. So, could you please have at least one science specific episode a month? I will be happy to do that. I know that it will have very little viewership because nobody cares about science, but I I'll still do that. Um I'll see, maybe once a month, maybe once in a while, but I'll do that. Okay, so now, about the question. Um we know that the Vedas were transmitted orally. At least one of the modes of transmission of the Vedas was oral transmission. In which our ancestors relied on their memory to transmit the the entire corpus of the Vedas exactly syllable by syllable without making a single mistake. And today also you have you have people who have who are continuing the tradition. They have memorized the entire corpus of the Vedas. Some people would memorize the Rigveda. Some people would memorize other Vedas. Some people would memorize all Vedas if it's possible, but it's possible. Human beings are capable of incredible feats. And they would not merely memorize the words. They'll be able to to to recite the shlokas syllable by syllable without making a single mistake, which means that when they recite the shlokas, they are reciting it exactly the way the Vedas were recited several thousand years ago. Exactly the same pronunciations, the same ucharas. So, that's one mode of transmission of the Vedas, oral transmission. Now, we know about the Zoroastrians, and they have these flames, right? They have these fire temples, Agni temples, and they have these flames that are burning in these temples. You go to various Zoroastrian Parsi temples in India. I mean, we don't go into the temples because those are only for the Parsis, and we respect that. But they have these fires that have been burning for centuries, and they tend the fire. They don't allow it to go out. They don't allow anything to extinguish the fire. And they've been tending these fires for centuries, and some of the fires came from Iran, from Persia, when the Zoroastrians fled the Arabic invasion. Let's That's more than a thousand years ago. So, they have kept the fire burning for over a thousand years. Our people, our ancestors kept the the the fire burning, so to say, metaphorically, for the transmission of the Vedas for several thousand years. Imagine that. So, if you have someone who's who can recite, let's say, the Rigveda in its entirety, that person was taught by somebody who was taught by somebody else. And if you take that chain backwards, you're going to go back all the way to, I don't know, 6000 BC or something. That's the kind of connection these people have. That's incredible. So, that's >> [clears throat] >> the oral mode of transmission of the Vedas, okay? Now, what potential hurdles could have prevented them from storing information in the form of writing? Well, the only potential hurdle that would have prevented them from storing information in the form of writing would have been the non-existence of writing. So, in there would have been a time in our history, ancient history, when writing was not yet invented. Right? And that would be the only thing that would prevent them from storing it. Otherwise, there would be people who would recite the Vedas, but there would be people who would write it down, too. Because both Because storing their knowledge in two forms is more advantageous than for storing it in just one form, or transmitting it in in just form one form. So, then that takes us to the question of when did Indians start using a script for writing, which means the question actually is which is the oldest script that we know of in the Indian subcontinent, and how old is it? So, we know there are scripts like Brahmi, Kharosthi, and all kinds of Brahmi or derived scripts, like Devanagari, like the Sharada lipi, like the various Southeast Asian scripts. All these scripts are derived from the Brahmi script. There's a Kharosthi script, also. Uh forget about the Kharosthi right now. So, we have the Brahmi script that may date back to maybe 1000 BC, possibly. Possibly. But before the Brahmi script, which script did we have? It was the Saraswati Sindhu script, the so-called Harappan script or Indus Valley script. And if you look at Wikipedia today, it will say it's undeciphered. Well, it's been deciphered by Bharat Rao, also known as Iravatham, and it turns out to be Sanskrit. Vedic Sanskrit, late Vedic Sanskrit. Sanskrit. It is Sanskrit. So, and you will see that there is a clear transition between the so-called Harappan symbols or characters to the Brahmi characters. So, which indicates that Brahmi has evolved out of the old so-called Harappan script or Saraswati script. And the oldest examples that we have of the Saraswati script date back to about about 3000 BC or something, which is 5000 years before today, roughly. If you ask Wikipedia, it will give you something similar. Roughly. Okay, let's see. In it will say Indus script, right? Harappan script or something. Indus script. So, undeciphered, blah blah blah, nonsense. So, what's the oldest It will say 2800 BC, or maybe proto-script from 3500 BC, which is like five and a half thousand years before today. So, listen. When it comes to archaeology in the Saraswati Sindhu region, we have not even excavated excavated 1% of the archaeological sites that that exist in this region, in the Saraswati Sindhu region, the the Sapta Sindhu region. We have excavated less than 1% of the archaeological sites. And based on that tiny little amount of excavations we've done, we know that the oldest example is about of the Saraswati Sindhu script is about five and a half thousand years old. So, imagine we explore excavate everything, then I'm sure it will go back a thousand or two thousand years, possibly. But based on the information that we have right now, it's 3500 BC, the oldest evidence that we have, which is five and a half thousand years before today. So, when did Indians actually take up writing? Based on the best evidence, it's five and a half thousand years before today. So, I suppose that's when we started possibly started writing the Vedas down in the form of a written script, possibly. Of course, when it comes to the actual ancient documents that [clears throat] we have, the Vedas, those are most likely written on birch bark, most likely most likely written in the Sharada script or something. I'm not sure which script it was. And that dates back to the past 2000 years only. Uh because see birch bark etc. All these perishable media on which you can write, those media are perishable and they disintegrate easily especially in a hot humid climate that the kind of climate you have in the many parts of India. And obviously the Vedas are so vast that you can't write them on rock. And we did not have the practice of writing on clay tablets like the Mesopotamians etc. had. Uh but the oldest evidence of writing in India from the Indian subcontinent is from about 3,500 BC roughly. Which would indicate that that's when Indians most likely took up writing. Most probably before that somewhat, but that's the best evidence that we have. And I think that that's would that would be the time around which maybe our ancestors started writing it down. So yeah, that's the best I can That's the best we can um guess or calculate based on the best information that we have. Matt and cflmao says, "Why didn't Russia engage in naval colonialism and imperialism?" That's an interesting question, great question. We have powers. We have states like Spain Portugal England the Dutch the the Danes etc. who tried to engage in naval colonialism and imperialism. The Spaniards they conquered the Americas and did all did all kinds of fantastic wonderful wonderfully barbaric things there. They wiped out entire populations. They genocided entire populations. The Portuguese went eastwards and they discovered discovered India. And then they tried similar barbaric things in India. Then you had the the Dutch who also came to India who also went to who also went to the the Indonesian islands and tried similar things there with less success. Then you had the Danes who also had an East India company, the Danish East India company. And then you had the English who did untold brutality and barbarism not just in India but also in the Americas. And all of these these empires of these these colonial powers were naval in nature. But then you have Russia. And Russia doesn't do any of that. And the question is, "Why?" Why didn't Russia start an East India company and send ships to India?" Why didn't they do that? Well, there's multiple answers for that. And the biggest clues lie in geography. Let's take a look at the map so that we understand what we are dealing with here. We're dealing with Russia. Now So here's a map of Eurasia. Now the original Russia okay, from 500 years ago was simply um what what is now Ukraine and the Moscow region. Okay, more or less. Ukraine was called Ukraina at the time, which means the borderlands. The borderlands of what? The borderlands of Russia. The original capital of the Rus people was Kiev. k i e v Kiev And then later after the end of the Mongol yoke the capital became became Moscow, Muscovy. And then from there the the Russian empire started expanding. Okay, now if you look at the geography. So originally 500 years ago roughly Russia was this small region and all of this Russia today was non-Russian. They had no Russian Russian presence there. And then in the 16th, 17th, 18th, 19th centuries the Russians started expanding eastwards further and further eastwards. They came into conflict with the Tatars. Uh significant conflicts with the Tatars in Omsk. Where is Tomsk? Tomsk over here. Krasnoyarsk, the red city and so much more. And they kept on going eastwards and So that was their modus operandi. If you look at Russia okay, even if you look at modern Russia today which stretches from Eastern Europe all the way to the Far East of Asia you will see that they have ports like Murmansk which is in the Barents Sea. Um the USSR had ports like Esto you know Riga, Tallinn etc. And eventually you had Konigsberg or Kaliningrad. But all of these ports in the Baltic Sea once again the ports that Russia had, they are frozen for a significant portion of the year. The ports in the Arctic Circle, they're also frozen most of the year. And the ports that they have in the Far East of Russia even Vladivostok even these ports are frozen you know, for significant portions of every year. So when you have no access to warm water ports when you don't have access to the open oceans, maybe the either the Atlantic or the Pacific oceans then how do you become a naval a major naval power? You can't. It's impossible. Icebreaker technology even today you can't use it to you know you can use icebreakers only for very specific tasks. For very specific purposes. You can't have a new I mean you have nuclear icebreakers and all. But icebreakers are a very specialized kind of ships a kind of ship and they can't be used for multiple purposes. So and before the 20th century icebreakers they don't even exist. That's why Russia never became a major naval power. They decided to become a continental power, a Eurasian power. And they kept expanding eastwards eastwards eastwards. They kept gobbling up territories um that that that belong to the various Turkic peoples like the Tatars like the Tungusic peoples, like the Mongolians north of Mongolia is another part of Mongolia which is now part of Russia. And all the way further east further east further east all the way until you know up to the Far East of Russia which abuts on the um on the uh Western Pacific coast. So that was the deal with Russia. And Russia What what was the financial impetus or incentive for colonizing for being a continental colonizing power? It was the fur trade. Okay? The fur trade fueled all of this colonizing. And eventually the Russians did occupy did establish a colony on a different continent which was Alaska. All right? But then by the by the roughly middle of the 18th century, 19th century, middle of the 19th century when the fur trade started started winding down and when the Russians started facing pressure from the Americans and the British in Alaska they decided that instead of fighting for Alaska let's just sell it off to the Americans. And that's what they did. So they gave up the colony they had established, very large colony of Alaska. And there were times when the Russians had a reasonably powerful navy but that navy was deployed in the Black Sea in uh the Baltic Sea etc. for mainly defensive purposes. And also sometimes in the Mediterranean Sea via the Bosphorus, the Strait of the Dardanelles, Gallipoli etc. So that was the thing. Um geography tells us that it was not possible for Russia to become a major naval power and that's one of the reasons one of the factors that contributed to the decline and eventual dissolution of the USSR. That the Anglo Saxon empire controlled the oceans and the trade routes. They had unfettered access to all the oceans. The Pacific Ocean, the Atlantic Ocean, the Mediterranean Sea even the Indian Ocean right? And the Russians did not have access to any proper warm water port. And that explains a lot why Russia did not engage in naval colonialism and imperialism. Russia was an imperialistic power. I'm not sure if it still is. Some people would like to say it is, but historically it was. It was an expansionist empire and it expanded in a continental fashion, not intercontinentally through naval operations. Naval operations are very expensive and you need to be really good at logistics and whatnot to succeed at that, which is something only the British were able to do eventually. So Russia adopted a totally different approach and it was very successful at that. Amisha says, "Why is Leonardo da Vinci regarded as such an amazing inventor? Did Leonardo da Vinci invent anything that was actually built, adopted and widely used?" Leonardo da Leonardo da Vinci. So when did he live? I can tell you about him, but let's first look at uh the time period when Leonardo da Vinci lived. During the Renaissance, wasn't it? Leonardo da Vinci So yeah. 1452 to 1519 is the time period when Leonardo da Vinci lived and he was >> [clears throat] >> Excuse me. And yeah, he lived in Italy and he died in France. So that that establishes when Leonardo da Vinci lived. Now, see, he's regarded as a great inventor, isn't he? Um and why is he regarded as a great, fantastic, amazing inventor? Did he invent anything that was actually built, adopted, widely used? Not quite. So why is he still rightfully regarded as an amazing inventor? Because of his vision. Because of the groundbreaking, pathbreaking novel original work he did. He was a visionary. He could see the future of technology. Okay? Um his ideas had extraordinary breadth, had tremendous detail. They were incredibly original. He had thousands of ideas in various domains, uh engineering, mechanics, anatomy. And and he he recorded all these ideas in his notebooks. His inventions were not really constructed or used broadly. And during his lifetime, his ideas had very limited or modest impact. Okay? And his inventions did not really enter practical use. But what he what he did is he filled thousands of notebook pages with incredible designs for futuristic machines. He designed hydraulic systems. He designed weapons. He designed uh archit- architectural projects. He studied anatomy. I'm sure he did it illicitly, illegally. I'm sure you can't really uh dissect human bodies. You could not you were not allowed to dissect human bodies, but he still did that. And he and he filled so many notebooks with you know with diagrams of human anatomy. And the kind of machines he imagined, okay, or he anticipated, include parachutes, include tanks, include helicopters. Not the modern-day kind of helicopter, but the idea for a helicopter, right? That sort of thing. His notebooks are filled with technical drawings, which are incredibly clear, very advanced, very sophisticated. There is something called exploded diagrams. Do you know what an exploded diagram is like what it is? Let me show you. So he came up with what is now widely used, that is the exploded diagram. Let's take a look at it. So this is an example These are examples of exploded diagrams. And Leonardo da Vinci pioneered this. Nobody had come up with exploded diagrams before him as far as we know. He also had these cutaway views. Cutaway views. So these are called cutaway views, you know? As you can see, it's like you've sliced into into other house or an aircraft. So that these things are called cutaway views. And these are now pretty standard uh practices in engineering design. But da Vinci came up with this about 500 years ago and nobody else had done that before. So he was an incredible artist. He was very meticulous in his observations, in his analysis. He had incredible insights into the future. He had incred- incredible mechanical insights. So he combined these qualities, artistic skill, meticulous observation, mechanical insight, and all of these things together and all the ideas, the thousands of ideas he he came up with in thousands of notebook pages, um these are what, you know, made him the symbol of the universal genius or the uh the archetype of the polymath, right? And that's the reason. So um what are the famous machines he came up with? Flying machines, um weapons like crossbows, helicopters, uh armored vehicles. All of these concepts that he came up with, they became reality only in the 20th century. So he imagined those things roughly 500 years or 400 years before they became reality. Not in the shape and form that he imagined, but the concept was absolutely correct, right? >> [clears throat] >> So these are the reasons why he's regarded as an amazing inventor, as as a genius, as a polymath. And obviously, he was a great artist, fantastic art artist, and he did a lot of uh engineering work. Um he he you know, constructed canals. He built uh fortifications. He he worked on multiple on on many architectural and engineering projects, right? So that's the thing about Leonardo da Vinci. He did not actually come with things that were that fructified during his life during his lifetime. But his vision, his foresight was incredible. And he imagined things clearly, conceptually. And those things eventually became reality. And that's why he is regarded as such a great inventor, as as a polymath, as an absolute genius. Sharma says, "I was researching Ottoman era slavery of Europeans. Grok told me Grok Grok told me that the Crimean slave trade and the Barbary slave trade combined enslaved between 6 to 9 million mostly white women for four centuries. Doesn't this contradict the leftist paradigm that white people were never enslaved or oppressed. American slavery gets brought up endlessly endless times by leftists, yet they never talk about the enslavement of millions of Europeans by the colonial Islamic Ottoman Empire out of sheer ignorance. Why isn't this talked about in academia? I think it deserves more attention. Okay. I'm not sure if the leftists say that the white people were never enslaved. I personally am not aware of that. Maybe I've missed something, maybe I've not, I don't know. But the Crimean slave trade and the Barbary slave trade are a real thing. I'm not sure how many people how many women were enslaved. But this happened in two phases. And before the Crimean slave trade and the Barbary slave trade, you had the trans- trans-African what the African slavery. The Arabs would procure, let's say, labor from Africa. Okay? And millions of Africans were enslaved as a consequence. And millions of Indians were enslaved by the way. By the way. Now, when it comes to the Crimean slave trade and the Barbary slave trade, there is one factor in common between these two. One factor in common. What is that common factor between these two? It is the Ottoman Empire. Okay? So the Crimean slave trade centers around the Black Sea. Let's take a look at the map. We're talking about the Black Sea region, Central Asia, Eastern Europe, etc. Uh the Black Sea is south of Ukraine as I'm sure we know by now. This is the Black Sea. And the Crimean slave trade centers around the Black Sea. It centered around the Black Sea, okay? So what was the deal? You had Italians and Genoese slave traders who were slaving after out of a place called Theodosia. It's now called Feodosia. It was earlier called Theodosia and even before that it was called Caffa. So this was the center of the slave trade, the Crimean slave trade. And this obviously this peninsula is the Crimean peninsula, right? Sevastopol, Simferopol, etc. This is Crimea. So out of Caffa, which is now called Feodosia, you had the slave trade that operated from there. And it was Italian and Genoese merchants. Where is Genoa? Where is Genoa? Genoa is here. Genoese merchants, they were doing the slave trade uh where have we gone? From the Black Sea region. Uh and they were enslaving Europeans in in in selling them to the Ottomans. So essentially, it's sometime in the 15th century, late 15th century, that the Ottoman Empire conquered the Crimean region, the Black Sea region, okay? And you had something called the Crimean Khanate. You had the khans of Crimea. They were distant offshoots of the erstwhile Mongol Empire. The Mongols had occupied Russia for a couple of centuries. And then they left behind khanates and there was a Crimean Khanate, which was an Islamic governance system, an Islamic kingdom, you could say. And the Crimean Khanate was conquered by the Ottoman Empire around the late 15th century. So the Crimean Khanate was allowed to continue by the Ottomans as a vassal state. And it became a major supplier of slaves to the Ottoman Empire. Okay? And uh by the 16th century, 17th century, the uh Crimean Khanate would uh you know send raids into all the way to Poland, all the way to Lithuania. They would send raids into into into Russia, into Where is Hungary? Where is Hungary? Have we lost Hungary? Uh here is Hungary. Hungary, the Balkans, the Baltic region, all over the place. So the Crimean Khanate Khanate was very powerful. It was a very powerful vassal of the Ottoman Empire. And they would twice a year, roughly, launch slave slaving raids all across the region, all the way to Russia, all the way into uh Poland, Lithuania, Hungary, uh the Balkan region, all the way. And uh they would export these slaves, mainly women, also children, mainly women, to the Ottoman Empire. Okay? >> [clears throat] >> And then obviously like like every empire, every every state, you have a decline. So the Russian Empire starts becoming powerful in the 17th, 18th centuries, okay? And then there is a Russian Russian Russo Russo Turkic Turkish war uh sometime in the 18th century. And the Russians win the war against the Turks, against the Ottoman Empire. And the Russians, what do they do? They annex Crimea. Crimea was annexed by the Russians. And that brought an end to the Crimean slave trade. And that was the end of that barbaric era where the Crimean Khanate would take millions of European women as slaves and sell them to the Ottomans. So that's the Crimean slave trade. Now let's talk about the Barbary slave trade. That's slave trade operating in the Mediterranean region. Barbary The Barbary Coast was the North African Coast Coast. You know, the coast of Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya, essentially. That was the Barbary Coast. And you had slave trading pirates, essentially. Okay? Who would operate from North Africa. North Africa was Islamic, it was Muslim. And they would operate out of this region. And they would launch raids on Europe. And they would procure slaves. Okay? And they would sell it to the Ottoman Empire. >> [clears throat] >> So where would they launch the slave these raids? They would launch launch raids, pirate raids, slave capturing raids on Spain, on Italy. Obviously that makes sense. On France also, France also makes sense. But also eventually they started making raids all the way to Britain, to Ireland, and even Iceland. And they would capture mainly women. And they would bring them back to places like let's say Tripoli, Algiers, Tunis. These were all slave markets. And from there the the goods were transported to the Ottoman Empire, Constantinople, and other places. Right? So uh so the the the Barbary slave trade you could say its roots were in the Roman Roman period. But uh it became a big deal in the 15th, 16th, 17th centuries, okay? Uh I think the 17th century was the peak of the Barbary slave trade. And eventually the European powers became navally dominant, powers like >> [clears throat] >> Spain, powers like uh Portugal, powers like England, etc. And because of that the Barbary slave trade eventually wound down. And once the French conquered Algeria in the first half of the 19th century, that was the end of the Barbary slave trade. So you had millions of Europeans, mainly women, who were enslaved. Um what was the number? I'm not sure about the number. I'm sure you can ask AI or you can ask you can look it up what the numbers are. But millions of Europeans were enslaved and sold to the Ottomans. The Ottomans also had very large numbers of African slaves, African origin slaves. Um so [clears throat] what happened to the African origin slaves? If you had millions of European slaves who were sold to the Ottomans. And you also had millions of African slaves who were sold to the Ottomans. So clearly if you if they're selling European female slaves to the Ottomans, the Ottomans, the Turks will obviously procreate with them. And the further whiten their population their offspring, right? They wanted to become white, a white population. And that's how they would do it, by either abducting millions of Greek women and having children with them, or by purchasing slave slaves from the Barbary pirates and having children with them. So that's how the Turks went from being a Central Asian race to being a European race. Now what about the millions of African slaves they they had taken? You see most of these African slaves were males. >> [snorts] >> And what they would do to the male African slaves is they would castrate them. That's what they did. So the African slaves were used as slave labor. And that was it. None of their genetic genetic traces survived. The most horrible way of exploiting human beings. That's what the Ottomans did. And that's the story of the slave trade. The Ottomans uh what a brutal, barbaric empire it was. The Ottoman Empire. Right, next question. Amisha says, "What was Kemal Atatürk's involvement and view of the Armenian genocide? And how extreme were his views on Turkish nationalism?" Mustafa Kemal Atatürk. He was born Mustafa in the 19th century. He was born in a city called Salonica. It's now called Thessaloniki and it's part of Greece. Greece was part of the Ottoman Empire. So that's why Mustafa Kemal Atatürk Mustafa was born in Salonica. It was then called Saloni Salonica, it's now called Thessaloniki. His parents were Turkish. I mean his mother was Albanian, his father his mother was Zübeyde, his father was Ali Rıza. He had a sister Makbule. And he went on to be one of Turkey's greatest ever uh soldiers, generals, one of the greatest generals of all time. Okay? And um and he fought he he fought the Turkish War of Independence. He was the leader of Turkey in Turkey's War of Independence from 1919 to 1923. And it was a do or die situation. He was fighting the Ottoman Caliphate. He was also fighting the European occupying powers of who had occupied Turkey at the end of the First World War. And he defeated them all. And he won freedom for Turkey. And his philosophy, his ideology, his his vision was Turkey for the Turks. Okay? So Atatürk in 1915 he was fighting an invasion of Turkey that had been launched by by Winston Churchill. The Dardanelles Campaign, the Gallipoli Campaign. And he fought for months on end, horrific trench warfare, against all odds, against a superior enemy. And he defeated them. And he saved Turkey from this Western invasion. So that was one of his great deeds. And it it told you what kind of soldier he was, one of the greats of all all time. So 1915 he was fighting the Westerners. And his commanding officer in 1915 was was Liman von Sanders, a German. Because Turkey was allied with Germany at the time. And Ger- Germany was the superior power. So Atatürk was reporting to a German commanding officer, Liman von Sanders. In 1915 you also had the Armenian genocide happening. So the Armenian genocide happened in multiple waves, starting from the second half of the 19th century. S- last quarter, maybe, of the 19th century. The first wave, then the second wave, and then 1915 to 19 23 or something, you have the Armenian genocide. And the Turks to until today they refuse to accept there was a genocide. But privately they celebrate it. The Turks. So 1915, who was in power in Turkey? Was it Atatürk? No, Atatürk was merely a soldier. Who was in power in 1915? It was the triumvirate of the Young Turks, who belonged to the Committee of Union Union and Progress, the Committee of Union and Progress, CUP. It had three leaders who shared power. The Young Turks, the triumvirate of the three Pashas. Enver, Talat, Djemal. Enver Pasha, Talat Talat Pasha, and Djemal Pasha. And Talat Pasha was of Romani origin, but Turkish. Yep. So the three Pashas. But the Who was the most powerful of the three Pashas? It was Enver Pasha. Let's see what this fine gentleman looked like, Enver Pasha. Let's see. Okay, let's see the three Pashas. The three pashas, uh Talat, Enver, and Jamal. Okay, these three fantastic gentlemen, and Jamal, Enver. Enver was the most charismatic of all. He's the guy in front, obviously, over here. And the guy on the left, he looks very Indian because he's a Romani. He is Talat Pasha. So, Enver Pasha is the guy who was you know, the most powerful of the pashas. And it was these three pashas who unleashed the Armenian genocide. And Atatürk was not involved in that. He was busy fighting other things. And obviously, in 1919, you have the Turkish War of Independence that takes its own uh course. And at that time, Atatürk was very busy fighting the caliphate, the Ottoman caliphate, plus and the Ottoman caliphate was allied with the occup- with the Western occupiers, Britain, France, etc. And he was fighting them all. So, when he's fighting the foreign occupiers and the caliphate, he has no time to kill Armenians, right? So, essentially, the the point that I'm trying to make is that Mustafa Kemal Atatürk was not involved in the Armenian genocide. I'm not saying that everything he did was fantastic. I'm not saying that. But he was not involved in the Armenian genocide. He was definitely involved in the burning of Smyrna. Have you heard of this incident ever? The burning of Smyrna. He was involved in that. Maybe he he ignored what was happening. But it happened under his command. Under his command. It happened by soldiers under his command. Maybe he did not pay attention. Maybe he chose to ignore what was happening, but you could say he was responsible for that. But he was not responsible for the Armenian genocide. He did not participate in that. What were What were his views about the Armenian genocide? Privately, he's said to have been extremely critical of the genocide. He said it He said privately that it it was a very evil, super criminal act, and those who did this should be punished. That was his private view, maybe semi-public view. But here's the deal. Atatürk wanted to create a Turkey for the Turks. That means See, when Turkey was eventually created out of all this, there was a forcible, mandatory population exchange between Turkey and Greece. What What What was that? There were so many Turkish people in the parts of Greece that that the that the nation of Turkey withdrew from. Those parts of Turkey were part of the Ottoman Empire, including the Saloniki where where Atatürk was born. So, you had lots of Turkish people who lived in these parts of Greece. And you had many Greek people who were living in parts of Turkey and Anatolia because they've been living there for thousands of years. There was a forcible population exchange. All Turks out of Greece, no mandatory. And all Greeks out of Turkey, mandatory. So, Turkey became fully Islamic. Greek became fully Christian. It was done on a mandatory basis. Right? >> [clears throat] >> So, that ensured that Atatürk got a Turkey for the Turks. Now, this new republic he created, the Republic of Turkey, its identity and its legitimacy, it rested to a large extent on ensuring continuity with the territorial outcome and the demographic outcome of the end of the Turkish War of Independence, and also on the demographic outcome of the Armenian genocide. Okay? Because that ensured the creation of a Turkey for the Turks, which was his vision anyway. And that made official recognition of the Armenian genocide politically impossible, politically unacceptable. And that's why Atatürk publicly stayed quiet about this. Okay? But privately, he's said to have expressed, you know, deep uh um disapproval of the Armenian genocide, and he was definitely not involved in that. He was definitely not a participant in this genocide. Right. Arhan Sutaria says, "I've been watching your videos for for 4 years. Thank you so much. Thank you so much." Can you explain the changes of the of dynasties in the region that's now called Gujarat? Historically, what dynasties have we had in Gujarat, right? Um Look, >> [clears throat] >> See, the Mahajanapada age starts maybe about I mean, modern historians will tell you maybe 500 600 600 maybe 700 BC. Okay? Um So, before the Mahajanapada period, you had the late Vedic period, in which you know, you would have Vedic culture in Gujarat. You would have the Sindhu Sauvir dynasty, which was late, probably post-Vedic, but before that before that you would have late Vedic culture in Saurashtra in in Gujarat, and we're not quite sure what dynasties were there at the time. That kind of is the transition phase between the so-called Saraswati Sindhu or Harappan era and the post-Harappan era because you had a big drought and you know, the great river dried out and people started dispersing to various parts of India. Some went west, some went east, and so on. And much of that would have happened through Gujarat. So, around 600 BC or so, we have the age of the Mahajanapadas. And um Gujarat's various parts of Gujarat may probably have been part of the Avanti Mahajanapadas, right? And uh that's where you have regional names within Gujarat like Av- like Not Avanti. Anarta, Saurashtra, Lata, etc. Those names originate in the Mahajanapada period, and they kind of still persist. I mean, we still have a part of Gujarat that's called Saurashtra. We still have the Lata region of Gujarat, and so on. Uh so, that's the Mahajanapadas period, maybe 700 or 600 600 BC. Then about 300 BC, around that time, you have the rise of the Mauryan Empire. And we have Ashokan inscriptions in Gujarat, in Saurashtra, Girnar. The Girnar mountain, there is a major inscription of Emperor Ashok there. So, that indicates that Gujarat, or at least Saurashtra, was directly administered from Pataliputra. Directly, indirectly, we Gujarat would have had a regional governor, obviously, who reported to the emperor in Pataliputra, but Gujarat was under Mauryan imperial administration because the Mauryan Empire encompassed the whole the essentially the entirety of the subcontinent. Okay? So, that is the Mauryan period uh period. Then by the 1st century BC, you have most likely the Shunga dynasty. After the Shunga dynasty, you have the Kanva dynasty, which would have ruled Gujarat. And then there's the transition to maybe Indo-Greek phase. It is said that the city of Junagadh was called Yavana-gadh. So, you you had an Indo-Greek presence in in Gujarat and Saurashtra for some time. And after the Shunga period, the Kanva period, you would have the rise of the Mahakshatrapas, the Scythian rulers, right? It's It's So, you around the 1st century BC to to 1st century AD, you have a transition period, and then you have the rise of the Western Satraps, the Mahakshatrapas. Okay? And the Mahakshatrapas became very powerful. You had very powerful kings like Nahapana, like Chastana, uh who ruled from this region. Uh Nahapana, one of his capitals was possibly Minnanagar, which is present-day Karachi. But Karachi is kind of extended Gujarat, isn't it? Right? Just west of Gujarat, they have Karachi, Sind Karachi. Uh so, you had the the Mahakshatrapas ruled from Gujarat between around the 1st century AD to roughly 3rd 4th centuries AD, and they were very powerful. They were very rich, very prosperous because they controlled the major ports that were the hubs of trade between India and the west, whether it is West Asia, Mesopotamia, whether it is Egypt, whether it is the Roman Empire, whether it is whatever else. So, these ports were were very very uh critical to India's trade with the Western world, essentially. And the Mahakshatrapas controlled these ports because these ports were in Gujarat and Saurashtra. So, you have the Mahakshatrapa era, okay? In the 1st to 3rd 4th century AD. Then from the 4th century AD to the 5th 6th century AD, you have the Gupta Empire, which rules Gujarat, which rules India, the subcontinent. The Gupta Empire defeated the Mahakshatrapas, and you could say took over Gujarat and took possession of the great ports. So, that obviously you is is an if you're an empire, you need to control the ports where all the money comes from. So, the Guptas took over and you have Gupta rule over Gujarat between the 4th to maybe 6th century uh AD. And then the Gupta Gupta empire also after a century and a half or so it starts uh declining and then the regional empires become regional chiefs and then you have the Maitraka dynasty which ruled out of Vallabhi in Saurashtra. So, it's a major kingdom but it's not an empire, it's a dynasty, the Maitraka dynasty. And after the Maitraka dynasty you have a period where you have Gurjara-Pratihara and Rashtrakutas and Gujarat is kind of fragmented and you have the rise of the Chavda dynasty around the 7th century AD or something like that. And that rules for about two and a half centuries. The major ruler was Vanaraja Chavda who uh ruled out of Anhilpur Anhilpur Patan which is in northern Gujarat. And it is during this time that Gujarat acquires a distinct cultural identity from the rest of from from other uh parts of western India. Then after the decline of the Chavda dynasty you have the Solanki dynasty that comes up and the first king of the Solanki dynasty was a nephew of the last Chavda king. So, the Solanki dynasty uh becomes a very powerful kingdom which is again based out of the same capital that the Chavdas founded, Anhilpur Patan. After So, the Chavda dynasty ends in the late 900s AD. And then you have the Solanki dynasty which rules for another maybe what? Two and a half centuries or so. Um And in the 13th century you have the Vaghela dynasty which was the last major Rajput dynasty after the Chavdas and the Solankis to rule Gujarat. And after that um maybe the early 15th century you have um Gujarat coming under the Delhi Sultanate. So, Gujarat becomes a province under the Delhi Sultanate and there are there's a governor appointed by the Delhi Sultans in Gujarat. And then the Delhi Sultanate crumbles. Uh and in the 15th century Gujarat becomes a an independent Sultanate uh under Muzaffar Shah or something his name was. Okay, that foreign Turkic ruler who ruled part of Gujarat for and and his descendants. So, from the 15th to the late 16th century you have uh a Sultanate of Gujarat. And then from the 16th century all the way to the early 18th century you have the Mughal empire. So, Gujarat becomes a subah. And uh one of the major the it had major ports like Khambat and Surat. Right? And the the Mughal empire rules uh Gujarat. Then uh from the 1700s to the early 19th century you have Maratha rule. So, the Marathas liberated India including Gujarat from the Turks. And you have the Peshwas, the Gaekwads, etc. who uh liberate India from the Mughals. And you have a Gaekwad state in Vadodara in Baroda. So, that's between the 1700s to the early 19th century. And then you have the British East India Company. The British East India Company established a trading post, a factory in Surat in the 1600s. Very early 1600s. And uh they eventually by the 19th century they take over, you know. So, then Gujarat comes under the British East India Company and eventually the Crown of England. And that was that's about it. So, that's kind of the chronology of the various rulers who have ruled Gujarat, the various dynasties and rulers um and lineages that have ruled Gujarat for the past about 3,000 years. All right. Shub says, "Could there be a possibility that Native American and Native Australian civilizations were as advanced as Indian civilization? Do we have any evidence? Are whites still till date successful in hiding the evidence?" Look, when it comes to Australia, there is no evidence of an advanced civilization. What are the the telltale signs that an advanced civilization will leave behind in the archaeological record? You will see cities, a network of cities in the archaeological record. You will see large buildings. You will see sophisticated buildings and great structures, etc. in a city in the archaeo- archaeological archaeological record. You will see evidence of large population centers. You will see evidence of large-scale agriculture. You will see evidence of literature. You will see evidence of astronomy and science and technology. These are the signs and symptoms that an advanced civilization leaves behind in the archaeological record even if it is destroyed. Now, there is no such thing in Australia. No such thing as far as we know. So, to the best of our understanding, there was never an advanced Native Australian civilization in Australia. It doesn't mean that it's a they're backward, primitive, they're bad, they deserve to be conquered, none of that. They had a certain way of living. It doesn't mean that they deserve to be conquered. It doesn't mean that others it gives others the right to conquer them and and brutalize and and genocide them. But that's how it was for the Native Australians. They never became an advanced civilization comparable to let's say India. What about the Native Americans? Well, the Native Americans were definitely way more advanced. Possibly more advanced than the Europeans. The only thing they were less advanced than the Europeans in was the systemic systematic application of violence. The Europeans were better than the than the Native Americans at that. But when it comes to uh Central America, Mesoamerica, South America, you had very advanced civilizations. You had civilizations with millions of people living there. With incredible architecture. They had incredible technology. They had calendar systems. They had calendars that could predict predict events thousands of years in the future. >> [clears throat] >> Um the Mesoamericans possibly independently discovered zero independently from us Indians. Right? And so much more. So, the Native American populations from Mesoamerica which is Mexico, Panama, that region. And Latin America, South America, the uh Inca empire Peru, etc. Very advanced, very advanced, very prosperous, very high um uh so level of sophistication of technology, scientific advancements um high quality governance great logistical capabilities >> [snorts] >> great administration, all of that was there. Uh when it comes to North America in North America, United States and Canada. You know, they don't allow archaeological work on Native American history. There are I mean, see in in Mesoamerica, Mexico, in South America, you have these major monumental architectural works like pyramids, etc. They they're unmistakable. There are such things in North America also but these are suppressed, they are hidden away. Those have been destroyed, bulldozed, etc. There is evidence of large-scale cities even in North America in what is now the United States. But you will not see anyone highlighting those things. Those things are quietly brushed under the carpet. So, in the United States and in Canada they've been very good at suppressing the evidence or destroying the evidence willfully. So, the gist of the answer is that Native American civilizations were pretty advanced. Pretty sophisticated. High uh technology for that for that time period. Very good governance, very good administration. Um great advances in science, technology, literature, poetry, so much more. >> [clears throat] >> And uh yeah, but not Australia. Right? So, that's how it was. Amisha says, "How did Native American society not completely collapse from losing 90% of their people to smallpox?" So, we are taught or told that, you know, yeah, unfortunately the Native American society in various parts of the Americas, [snorts] whether it's North America, Mesoamerica, South America, whatever, 90% plus of their populations died out. And it was very unfortunate because of smallpox. That's it's because of smallpox and diseases. That's what we are told. There's no question that diseases, old world diseases, Eurasian diseases played a major role in the decimation of the populations. But the 90% figure which could be >> [clears throat] >> an underrepresentation of what happened. Maybe it's 95%. Maybe 50% was diseases. And the rest was genocide. So, it's not like, you know, the Europeans came and sat there and the natives started dying out. No, the Europeans actively killed them off as many as they could. Right? So, I mean, look at the story of what happened to Hispaniola. The island which is now half Haiti, half Dominican Republic. Christopher Columbus became the governor general. He was given the title of governor general of this island by the Spanish crown. And at the time there were millions of Native American people who lived there. Within 20-30 years, zero. Okay? And there was this this priest Bartolomé de las Casas who observed this firsthand in front of his own eyes and he wrote about this. He was an advocate of not killing Native Americans. Merely convert them to Christianity. Don't don't kill them. And he was very critical of what Christopher Columbus and later governors did to the people. And that's just one example. >> [clears throat and cough] >> This happened over and over and over again. So and the the the people, the Arawak people of Hispaniola were did not die of smallpox. They died of genocide. And the same happened over and over again. So the 90% figure could be accurate. Maybe it is still an underrepresentation. Maybe it's 95%. But some portion of it was due due to disease, the rest of it was due to genocide. And nobody can deny that. Now and what was the death toll in in numbers? Maybe 100 million. Between 50 to 100 million. That is a shocking number. Now how did Native American society not completely collapse? They wanted to survive somehow. So we have small population groups that still exist in North America. In reservations, etc. These reservations were meant to be temporary. And they still regard Native Americans as as a problem. They just want Native Americans to either assimilated assimilate out assimilate into the white population and stop being Native American so that the land can be taken, the reservations, the land the substantial land is there. Or maybe they should just die out. And then once again the whites can take the land. So the white settlers are still waiting for the Native Americans to die out. The Native Americans are simply a minor substratum subclass of of society in the Americas. In a super marginalized substratum of society. They Obviously everybody wants to survive. They want to keep things going. They want to continue living and continue passing on their culture to whatever extent they can. And they're trying to do that. Right? So the whites were not able to exterminate them completely and that's why they still survive. They have tried to be resilient. But today, you know, most Native Americans if you look at them, they don't even look Native American anymore. They don't have brown skin. Many of them have blonde hair, blue eyes. They've married into the European communities and most of them don't even look Native American. So they're slowly losing their identity. Their their their separate distinct ethnicity it's it's being eroded generation after generation. And it's the the society is collapsing. Most of them have been made to convert to Christianity. Their religion is gone. Their their their belief system, their culture is gone. And slowly the even the languages are gone. The Native American languages. Hardly anybody speaks Native American languages now, even on the reservations. Most people I would say speak English. So it's it's being eroded step by step, generation by generation and the eventual objective is to erase the identity of the Native Americans and just once that happens, you can take over all the land. There you have it. Swapnil says, "Why were British redcoats so widely disliked by American colonists during the years leading up to the American Revolution?" Who were the British redcoats? What did they What is What do you mean by redcoat? Let's see. It's the distinct red uniform. Okay? I'm sure everybody is familiar with this red uniform. You even had these red uniformed guys in India during the British occupation of India. Eventually it became khaki, but originally it was red. So you had these redcoats, these red uniformed soldiers who occupied um North America with the the region that would eventually become the United States. Okay? So why were these British redcoats so widely despised in in uh by American colonists during the years leading up to the American Revolution or the American War of Independence? The American War of Independence is from 1775 to 1783. Okay? So the years leading up to that is from the 1760s onwards, let's say. So before the 1760s, you see uh there were historically from the beginning of the British attempts to occupy North America. The British never sent a standing army to North America. Starting from Jamestown, starting from Plymouth. They never sent a standing army. They sent colonists in large numbers. Many of them died out. Jamestown was a disaster. Roanoke is a mystery and a disaster. Plymouth kind of succeeded. And the Americans want to forget about Jamestown because of the way things went there. Cannibalism, barbarism, what not. >> [clears throat] >> But eventually the Americans succeeded. And the Americans had a very different strategy from the Spaniards. The Spaniards were looking for gold. They were looking for slaves and conversions. The Americans were looking for land. Which is why the natives were genocided. The the English were looking for land. So they took over the land, they took over the land. And eventually you had a substantial uh population of English people in eastern in the eastern United States on the east coast of the United States. And it's then the 1960s that the British crown sends the redcoats to the colonies. The redcoats are a standing army. So suddenly the colonists who have grabbed all this land and who are like living happily suddenly find this army looming over them sent from across the Atlantic Ocean thousands of kilometers away. Right? So that gave them the sense of being under occupation by England. And England London became this this this it became the center of tyranny to the colonies. So it's like the British crown no longer trusted the English colonists. It regarded them as as as people who are potential traitors and potential whatever. And they now need to be controlled by force and by and through tyranny. Right? So that's in the 1760s that the redcoats were sent to the colonies. And not only that, okay? So you the England sends an army to the Americas and then it puts the financial burden on the colonies. Okay? So the English crown, the English parliament it required that the colonial communities had to provide housing to the redcoats, to the occupying soldiers. They had to provide food to the occupying soldiers and to they had to provide all other necessary and required supplies to the occupying soldiers, the redcoats. Right? So not only are the colonies by being occupied by England, but the colonies have to pay for the occupation. Right? The entire cost of the occupation is now shifted on the colonies. And um you see there are all these taxes that were being imposed on the colonies by the English crown. And the redcoats were now seen as the enforcers of these of these loathsome taxes. So the colonies had no representation in parliament, but they were being taxed. And they said that there should be no taxation without representation. But the redcoats were now enforcing this taxation without representation. And then there was social friction. There was job competition. You see these redcoats, they were on the payroll of the British crown. But many of these redcoat soldiers, they would also take off-duty work as laborers as as as dock workers in the dockyards and they would compete with the local with the local men. They would compete with them in a limited job market. That created problems for the local people population. Job social friction. And there's another factor. See these uh redcoats, they were typically recruited from England's poorest people, poorest classes. And they had a reputation which may have been justified, possibly would have been justified, that they had a tendency for drunkenness, they had a tendency for thievery theft and violence. Okay? So the redcoats were regarded as as dangerous, as morally suspect people, as thieves, as violent people, as as people prone to drunkenness. And then they were competing for jobs and they were enforcing oppressive laws and oppressive taxes and and so on. And uh and So these are the reasons why the British redcoats were so widely disliked, despised by the American colonists in the years leading up to the American Revolution and in I think it was sometime probably the American War of Independence starts in 1775 and it lasts about 8 years until 1783. In a few years before that I think it was 1770 or something there was a massacre in Boston in which these red coats fired upon protesters. Boston, Massachusetts. The Boston Massacre was again perpetrated by these red coats. Maybe like it's not like 300 people died in that, maybe five, eight, 10 people may have died in the Boston Massacre, but it was reported widely as a massacre of lots of people and that added to the ire to the to the you know antipathy that the locals had towards the red coats. So because of all these factors the British red coats were very widely disliked despised by the American colonists in the years leading up to the American Revolution and then the red coats fought the American independence fighters and yeah. >> [clears throat and cough] >> Amisha says, "How common was it for white female slave owners to have relationships with their slaves in the antebellum American South?" We're talking about pre-1860s, right? The antebellum period means the period before the American Civil War. The American Civil War is what? 1860, 61 around that time? 63? When did the American Civil War begin? Let's let's quickly fact check. American Civil see Civil War. When does it begin? 1861, that's right. I was right. Then it lasts about four, five years until 1865. So the antebellum period is the period before the Civil War begins and that could date back five years, 10 years, 100 years, whatever. Antebellum South. South means the southern part of the United States which was pro-slavery. And the northern part of the United States eventually became anti-slavery because they adopted embraced new technology that made slavery unnecessary. You know, advanced technology that which ensure you don't you don't need slaves. Like today you have soldiers in the military, but when with the advent of robots and drones you won't need soldiers potentially. A similar so if you adopt new technology uh some jobs go out of you know, they're no longer required. So that's what happened in the north, but in the south they wanted to continue slavery and that's why you had the Civil War. So you had the system of plantation slavery etc. in the American South. And it was very common for slave for slave owners males to sexually abuse their female Africans African origin slaves. It was pretty common and plenty of uh slave women gave birth to children of their white owners that sort of thing and those children were typically regarded as slaves and that's how it would go. And you see the male slave owners who would do this to the female slaves they did not have to take any responsibility. They could simply disregard the fact that there are now half white half black children that these uh black slave uh persons female persons have ladies have. They could just disregard that, you know. So the males in in in that male-dominated Christian uh milieu of the antebellum South male white males did not have any you don't have to take responsibility for any of these things. But the greatest of all taboos was for a white woman to have a child with a black slave. That was the greatest taboo. And there were all kinds of harsh laws against that. So if a white woman gave birth to a child with a black man who was typically a slave black people were slaves. So if a white woman gave birth to a child whose father was a black slave she would be enslaved and the child would the child would be enslaved. The child would be born a slave and the woman would be in some states it was she would be enslaved for five years some some years in slums in some states she would be a slave as long as the man was alive. That sort of thing. Um >> [clears throat] >> So it was very very um harshly frowned upon. It was a great taboo. Uh women could not escape responsibility. Men always evaded responsibility in um that society. So it was pretty uncommon for white female slave owners to have relationships with their slaves. It did happen. There are some records of that happening um and it the incidence was very low among white female slave owners, but it was kind of slightly higher among poor white females who were not land owners or slave owners. So among those women the incidence of having um children with with slaves was slightly higher I would say. But it was a great taboo and uh it carried a huge social stigma. So it was not very common. Did happen. There are some recorded incidents etc., but overall it was extremely uncommon and it was a great social taboo. Okay. Let's take a couple more questions. We already crossed two hours. Nirvana Shang says, "One rarely hears about the Somalia affair of the early 1990s when Canadian forces were implicated in serious abuses during their peacekeeping mission in Somalia. What were the underlying objectives of Canada's involvement in Somalia and to what extent were the incidents the result of systemic issues within the military versus emotional or disciplinary breakdowns among individual soldiers? Thank you for your attention to this part." Okay, look Canada if you see the record the track record of Canadian soldiers during the Second World War it's not very nice. It's not very nice. Okay. Now that's the Second World War 1940s we're talking about. Now coming to the 1990s there was you know, a UN intervention in Somalia in the early 1990s. You had this uh ruler of Somalia called Siad Barre who was ousted and then you had a period of anarchy chaos in Somalia. Um Mogadishu was the capital here. You had the Mohamed Farrah Aidid who fought the Americans a long story there, but Somalia was in chaos. No real government all kinds of factions fighting each other whatever food supplies etc. the UN would give all each faction would capture that and hold it to ransom from the people unless they were given money or whatever and that sort of thing. It was it was a terrible catastrophe and that's why you had a US-led UN peacekeeping intervention in Somalia. And the Canadians participated in that. So that was the thing. And this Somalia affair is in 1993. And this was a series of uh brutal human rights abuses by Canadian soldiers. So I I can think of at least two incidents. You see the the Canadian soldiers Canadian um troops would have these army camps etc. and the Somalian population was starved. It was starving. They were always on the lookout for food and there was food in the UN camp. The Somalians would you know kids etc. they would sometimes teenagers sometimes come in you know scrounge around for food and try to get some food. And the Canadians started looking upon these Somalians as potential saboteurs and there was an incident in which the Canadian soldiers multiple Canadian soldiers shot a boy a young male and it looked like that boy was shot. I mean there was no need to kill him it looked like him. I mean his body was so badly damaged it could not be taken in one piece back to the camp or whatever it was. It had to be put in a body bag or something and medical examination showed that the kid was probably shot in the head a few minutes after he was shot in other places or parts of the body that sort of thing. So clear human rights abuse by Canadian soldiers and then you had another another incident in which another Somalian teenager once again a male was essentially kidnapped by the Canadians under whatever pretext maybe he's a saboteur maybe he's a thief whatever the excuse they made up and they kidnapped this boy and then they slowly tortured him to death. And it's like maybe two, three soldiers involved in the torturing of this boy to death including sexual abuse. But dozens of Canadian soldiers saw this happening. And they were okay okay with it. Doesn't matter. And some of them took photographs and those photographs unfortunately are still potentially available on the internet. That boy being tortured to death in all kinds of brutal ways. So the Americans what they did in Abu Ghraib in [snorts] Baghdad after their invasion and occupation of Iraq the kind of atrocities they did to the Iraqi civilians in Abu Ghraib prison the Somalia affair of the 1990s of 1993 was done by Canadians. It's it's a smaller scale example of what the Americans would do later. So that's the Somalia affair of the early 1990s and uh and it is said that this this Canadian detachment regiment whatever it was I don't know what the division or regiment name was. I don't remember that. You can look it up if you want. It was said to be highly racist. Some of the soldiers were big fans of the the Nazi Führer, Adolf Hitler. Some of them were apparently members of the Ku Klux Ku Klux Klan. Some of them had Confederate flags with that is, you know, the Confederate United States was the Southern United States that supported slavery. They were super racist. So, it was a systemic issue. It was not um emotional or disciplinary breakdown of any kind. And later on the various Canadian scientists, doctors tried to claim that these soldiers had been administered some anti-malaria drug that made them prone to not having full control over their behavior. That was the kind of uh justification that was given. And most of these individuals who were involved in these human rights abuses were given very light punishments. They should you know They should have been given very harsh punishments. They were given very light punishments. Maybe a dishonorable discharge from the military. Maybe like 5 days in jail or 30 days in jail. Light not not maximum security or whatever. And essentially everybody got off basically scot-free. And that was the deal. So, that's the Somalia affair. If you want you can look it up. It's not very pleasant reading. I assure you of that. Nirvana Shang says, "Who What explains the persistence of starlight tours in Canada? And how did authorities justify or ignore the practice?" Starlight tours. Sounds very pleasant. Starlight tour. What's a starlight tour? It's something that's said to be a practice in the Canadian province of Saskatchewan. The capital of Saskatchewan is Saskatoon. Would you like to see the map? I'll show you the map. All right, here we go. Where is map? We shall find the Saskatchewan. So, we are going to North America. We're going to Canada. In Canada you can see this SKO here. Pretty large province, right? North of Montana and North Dakota. Dakota. Saskatchewan. And the capital of Saskatchewan is Saskatoon. Excuse me. So, if you take a look at the coordinates, it's pretty high up north. Okay? And it gets pretty cold in winter. Pretty cold in winter. The temperatures in the Saskatoon region in the Saskatchewan region uh drop to minus 20s the minus 20s degrees Celsius. Sometimes even minus 30s. Minus 30 31 32 whatever. Okay? And there's a lot of Native American people who live in this region. >> [clears throat] >> So, the Canadian poli- police, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police RCMP, and Saskatoon Police, and Saskatchewan Police, they have this charming practice. What they do is that they will catch some Native American person. Typically somebody who has had a drink or two. They will accuse the person of drunkenness. Put that person in a police vehicle in the evening. Drive them out of the city a few kilometers. And leave them in the night out there. When the temperature goes to minus 25 minus 30 degrees. So, what happens? That person will freeze to death. And that practice has been known to happen since at least the 1970s. I'm sure it's had a I'm sure it's got a great history that must have that must go back to the what several centuries. But it's known to have been a thing since at least the 1970s. And there are several examples several names that are known of of Native American people who were taken for a starlight tour in this manner uh by the Canadian police. And uh Yeah, so that's what a starlight tour is. And has any action been taken against the police? Not really. Nothing serious. Nothing much. Uh do authorities justify this? They don't justify it. For the longest time they tried to deny it ever exists. Now they say that yeah, we're looking into it blah blah blah. Uh do they ignore the practice? They're trying their best to ignore it and to brush it under the carpet. Now, what explains this? Why do the Canadian police have this practice of taking innocent people, Native people, and throwing them out into the open in the night in winter several kilometers away from a city where you can't reach the city before you freeze to death? Why do they do that? Because the North American settlers are descendants of mainly Englishmen. And the English did not come to North America looking for gold or treasure. They came looking for land. And if you want land, you want to clear the land of whatever existed on the land. So, if you're a farmer and you want to have a plantation. And if there are let's say some animals on the land who eat your crops, you want to you will treat them as pests and you will want to exterminate them. Similarly, the English sought to exterminate the natives. And that approach, that attitude that desire still persists. The natives are regarded as pests. In Australia, the natives were regarded were classified as flora and fauna. Fauna mainly which means animals not humans. And that was used to justify their extermination. In Tasmania the natives were entirely exterminated. And today in Australia the natives are they barely exist. And in Australia which which people is it? It's the English. Isn't it? In the US and Canada again it's the English. So, they have had the same attitude towards land. So, the natives are seen as a nuisance. They are seen as an inconvenience. And the sooner the natives cease to exist the better it will be for the English so that they can take over all the land. And that's how it is. So, it's racism. It's a continuation of a desire to genocide the natives. And uh yeah. That's what explains the persistence of the starlight tours. It's the fact that the natives are second class citizens. They are barely regarded as citizens and >> [clears throat] >> they are treated the way the Romani are treated in Europe. Right? So, that's why these starlight tours uh persist. Okay, we've crossed over 16 minutes. I still have a bunch of questions I've selected, but I won't be able to take those today. So, let me see now if there are any questions in the live chat. And I can see there are 16 super chats, which means I'm going to have a long uh Okay, let's see. Let's go to the super chats. Please don't take more super chats so that I can end this reasonably on time. It's already over time, but okay. So, VSVS has another question. Namaste, sir. Well, namaste back to you. Thank you so much for your contribution to the channel. Thank you so much. Um okay, next question is once again by VSVS. It's a question by Al Janib. "Why only British East India Company succeeded far more than other East India companies in capturing India?" Because the British East In- East India Company was better at not only the systematic application of violence. They had better better administration. They understood the control of trade routes better than the other East India companies. Then overall, they essentially were like merchants with an army. See, the Spanish, the Portuguese, the English, the French, the Dutch, the the the Danes, they all tried to colonize various parts of the world. And when it comes to the subcontinent and beyond, the overall region, you had the British obviously who had an East India Company. You had uh the Portuguese who tried to colonize India. You had the French who tried to colonize India. The Dutch tried to colonize India to a little extent. The Danes also had a presence. The Dutch colonized the East Indies, which is Indonesia, that region. And they all had different approaches. So, when it comes to the Portuguese, they wanted to control only coastal ports. They did not want to invest in territorial acquisitions and administering territories. They only wanted to control coastal cities and ports. They invested in fortified ports. And they spread their entire investment across these ports, this network of ports, and the control of the attempt to control trade routes. And the Portuguese were funded by the crown. So, the only source of funding was the crown. And similar for other powers, but the English >> [clears throat] >> they were not con- they were not uh first of all, they They not funded by the crown. They were funded by investors. The East India Company was a joint stock company. A bunch of investors come together, pool their resources, their money, take shares, and they finance continually the operations of the of the East India Company. And the East India Company did not have the same strategy as the Portuguese. They did not simply merely invest in fortified ports. They invested in territorial acquisitions and governing territories. So, their entire strategy was different. It was better. It was superior. And it is something that you should study to understand how power works and how a small nation can take over a large large civilization. All right? >> [clears throat] >> Abhirup Abhirup Sarkar, thank you very much, sir. Thank you. Sumer Singh says, "I'm asking a out of topic question." Enemies of the RRR movie can try to derail the second part by having the original print leaked before release. How do makers prevent the thing? How do makers prevent the thing? By not leaking it. By having tight security, tight control. Right? If you have lax security, it's going to be a problem. So, ensure it doesn't get leaked out. And that's difficult because even Hollywood movies get leaked out before they are released sometimes. So, they're going to have to be very careful about this, okay? All right. >> [clears throat] >> Abhirup Sarkar says, "Is J.B. J.B. Morgan and other banks the current US deep state? They loaned war They loaned for the First World War and the Second World War and were pivotal in handling war weapons." They did not ever handle war weapons, sir. They financed the the sale and purchase of war of of weapons in wars. I'll see. Banks are instruments of the deep state. The deep state, let's say it hypothetically exists, it needs to control various aspects of [snorts] the world order, the financial system, the trade routes, key nations. They have to invest in penetrating, like they say, penetrating the cabinets of key nations, et cetera. So, one of the key aspects of global control is control of the financial system. And to control the financial system, you have to control key countries, key nations, like the UK, where you have London, which is a key financial, uh, you know, capital of the world. And you have to control the key banks. You have to control banks, major banks within nations. You have to control major financial international financial institutions, like, for example, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund. You have to control, uh, systems like the SWIFT system, and so on. So, the point is, these banks are one element of what the deep state controls. They are not the deep state. They are instruments of the deep state, if the deep state exists. All right? Okay. And people are taking more super chats now. >> [laughter] >> Why Heydrich was lucky mascot for Hitler? What is Heydrich? What's Heydrich? I'm not sure what Heydrich is. Let me see. Let me Google it. I seem to be super ignorant about what this Heydrich war is or was. Heydrich. What's Heydrich? Heydrich, Reinhard Heydrich. Um, I have not studied the life story of this, uh, individual, so I won't be able to tell you. Sorry. Uh, assassinated in Prague, Czechia. Reinhard Tristan Eugen Heydrich was a high was a German high-ranking SS and police official in Nazi Germany. One of the principal architects of the Holocaust. He held the rank of SS-Obergruppenführer und General der Polizei. Many generals Many historians regard Heydrich, uh, as one of the most sinister figures within Nazi regime. Okay. I have not studied this gentleman's this this individual's, um, life history, so I can't say. Sorry. VSVS says, "Question by AMF." Okay, we are now piling on the super chats. Are we? India was under occupation for 1,000 years. Do you think Indian traders played major role? Look, every nation, like I have said in the past, every nation has traitors. It's not like we are special and we are we produce the highest number of traders per capita in the world. No. Every nation has a certain percentage of the population that has traitorous instincts. Now, when you are a nation under distress, under foreign occupation, then it will look like there are more traitors than than usual because the traitors become useful then to the foreigners, the occupants. But if you're a powerful nation that is super sovereign and you're not under foreign occupation, the traitors become invisible because they are powerless. They have nobody to serve. So, when a nation is facing major misfortunes, it's under foreign occupation, that's when it looks like there are way more traitors. Let me tell you something about the United States, okay? Have you heard of the year of the spy? Spy. Year of the spy. 1985, the year of the spy. Uh, Zoom back. A period when numerous high-profile espionage cases, including involving Soviet spies in the United States, okay? John Walker Jr. family spy ring. Uh, let me Okay. John Anthony Walker. Richard Kelly Smith, >> [snorts] >> who was a physicist. Oh, man. Sharon Scranage. Larry Wu-Tai Chin. >> [clears throat] >> Jonathan Jay Pollard. Ronald William Pelton. Randy Miles Jeffries. Edward Lee Howard. And so many more. Doesn't it look like the US has more spies per capita than than India? So, understand this, please. Let us put things in the right context, in the global context. Then you'll understand that it's not like we had we are a nation that produces lots of traitors. Yeah, and when you're under foreign occupation, you will have foreign collaborators. You'll have that. So, what you need is a strong government government that identifies and deals with the traitors appropriately. Then, once you have that, it will look like there are no traitors in this country. It's a super fine country. It's never the case. There's always a certain percentage of any population that is going to have criminal tendencies. And there's always going to be a certain percentage of any population that's going to have treasonous tendencies. So, it's not something special to and something that is like exclusive to India. VSVS says, "Question by Real Painter. A discovery shows that the people in the IVC also had blue eye phenotype. How is this possible?" There are people in India today who have blue eyes. Yeah, there are people in India today who have blue I have met people who are Indian who I have met a couple of people who have red hair. Irish kind of hair. Not albino people, regular people, but red hair. I have met people who have blue eyes. I have met people who have green eyes. We have all the phenotypes in India. Why is it not not possible? We in the Indian subcontinent, the population that we have, all people, they have the highest genetic diversity outside of Africa. That's because India was the place where you had the first proper settlement of the out of Africa migration, the those people. So, all the phenotypes are going to be present in India. You know, green eyes, blue eyes, gray eyes, brown eyes, as as I have, uh, blonde hair, red hair, whatever else hair, everything. White skin, black skin, brown skin, various shades of white and whatever. Every phenotype is going to be found in India, in the subcontinent. Okay, Diva uh, Diva is a new member. Well, Diva, um, Diana K. Aviva, thank you very much and welcome to the channel's membership. Thank you very much. Godliness says, "Can you explain the history of terrorism? Every expert have their own narrative on this. For you, historically, when did when did terrorism start and by whom?" Now, that is very controversial. It's a very controversial question. Uh, when did terrorism start? Look, terrorism started What First of all, let's define terrorism. What is the difference between warfare and terrorism? See, warfare is when, let's say you have two nations or two kingdoms, two empires that are fighting. Warfare is when a professional army fights against another professional army. The soldiers fight the soldiers, and that's warfare. The objective is to defeat the adversary nation, adversary kingdom, or empires' military, and thereby achieve your political and military objectives. Your military objectives will be to defeat the military, to capture territory, maybe. And your political objective may be to effect a regime change. So, that is warfare. Now, what is terrorism? Terrorism is when you don't fight the adversary's military, you attack their innocent, unarmed civilians. That is terrorism. That's the difference between warfare and terrorism. When did terrorism start? Terrorism started whenever you had a a kingdom or or a culture that decided that it's okay to harm civilians, to attack civilians, to enslave civilians, civilians to do whatever atrocities are done to civilians. See, historically in the subcontinent, it would be armies fighting armies. You would have one or two bad rotten apples in a few thousand years, like Kansa Mama, like Jarasandha, you know, like Dhanananda. Some evil kings were there, but overall when two kingdoms fought each other, it would be the army fighting the army. They would never touch civilians. Terrorism started when you had armies starting to attack civilians. That is terrorism. So, whenever that started is when terrorism started. I will not go beyond that. VSVS says, "Sorry for going off topic, but Sir Cena is retiring tomorrow match at 6:30 live." You mean John Cena? Well, he's been fighting since before I was born, right? Well, he's finally retiring. Okay. Uh Chirag Chirag says, "Hello, sir. Was Germany under Kaiser Wilhelm II overly confident in its ability to defeat France, Britain, and Russia, leading it to ally with the Austro-Hungarian Empire despite the risks?" See, unless you are confident, you won't take such actions, right? The First World War was so incredibly complicated, convoluted. If you ask me right now, I don't exactly remember >> [laughter] >> the cause and effect chain, who It starts with the Balkan Wars. That's before the First World War starts. Then you you have um the assassination of Archduke Yeah, Ferdinand. And then in a matter of days, all the dominoes fall into space into into place. So, Germany allied with the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Serbia was allied with Russia. And France, Italy, it's super complicated. But yes, overall Germany was pretty confident that it's going to it's going to you know, defeat France, Britain, Russia. And France, Britain, Russia was a very unlikely alliance, actually, wasn't it? Yeah, so they were confident and they their confidence was clearly misplaced. The Austro-Hungarian Empire collapsed and disintegrated completely. And Germany was humiliated, Treaty of Versailles, which was eventually the cause of the Second World War. Chirag Chirag says, "Perestroika and Glasnost. Ah, Mikhail Gorbachev, 1980s. Perestroika and Glasnost were fundamentally well-intentioned reforms. How did they affect the Soviet Union and or Russia, and why did they ultimately contribute to instability rather than renewal?" See, it wasn't Perestroika. And what is Perestroika? What's Glasnost? It's openness, it's transparency. The USSR had this historical tendency to keep everything suppressed, to to be opaque, to suppress information, to it had this, you know, reputation for secrecy, and so on. So, Perestroika and Glasnost was about, you know, openness, but it was about transparency. It's about It was about owning up to your mistakes. It It was about the government taking responsibility for some things that it should not have done, that sort of thing. But it came at a time when the when the standards in the USSR were declining significantly. The decline of the standards in the USSR began with the death of Joseph Stalin. Then you have Nikita Khrushchev, and then you have, you know, a slow gradual decline in standards in the USSR. More and more bureaucratization of the of of the Politburo and the entire nation, more corruption, less emphasis on cutting-edge technologies. The USSR starts going behind in the computing race. Eventually, by the 1980s, it's like 10-15 years behind the US in supercomputing, in computing overall. And after uh after the 1970s, it it's it gives up on the space race. And um you know, the standards in the nuclear reactors decline. So, it was a slow gradual decline of standards, setting it off setting it off rust and rot in the entire system. And that's when Gorbachev decided to bring in Perestroika and Glasnost. So, people who had lived through the '50s and '60s, in the 1980s, they could see that things had declined significantly. And the nation's morale was already down because of all that. And then you bring in Perestroika and Glasnost, which reveals even more cock-ups, let's say. And that again contributes to further decline in not standard, but morale. You know, all people stopped believing in their government. People became >> [clears throat] >> dejected. So, it it to some extent contributed >> [clears throat] >> to the further decline of the USSR. But overall, the the the the disintegration of the USSR, it had multiple reasons. It was One of the factors was, you could say, Perestroika and Glasnost. The bigger factor was a decline in standards that happened as a as a creeping decline year after year, decade after decade. And also because of the encirclement of the USSR by the Anglo-Saxon Empire. The Anglo-Saxon Empire controlled much of the global economy. They controlled the trade routes, the oceans, and they had encircled the USSR. And the USSR its its economy wasn't doing great. And overall, all these factors together came together to And because of the weak leadership of Mikhail Gorbachev, also. Because of which the too much freedom was given to the to the various SSRs. And all of that eventually led to the collapse of the USSR. VSVS says, "Was the Indus Valley Civilization truly a civilization by modern definitions, or was it just the westernmost branch of a larger far old far older Vedic civilization whose records were systematically wiped out to create the Aryan invasion myth?" Like I've said, I don't several dozen times. >> [clears throat] >> I'm sure you've not seen it, so I'm not It's not a criticism. But like I've said so many times, calling this this entity a distinct civilization is one of the biggest lies that has been foisted upon the people of India. These days, there is a tendency to to to to name or to call every new archaeological discovery as a new civilization. Kiladi civilization, that civilization, this civilization. Every new archaeological discovery is apparently a new civilization now. That's how the idiotic media reports things. India's media is is the lowest standard in the world, whether it is in geopolitics or it is in whether it's in history or whatever. Lowest standards. So, and our historians also have have contributed They have done the biggest damage by calling this a separate civilization, Indus Valley Civilization, Harappan Civilization. It's not a separate distinct civilization. It is a period of time in our civilizational history. It was not isolated and separated and existed in in in in in isolation in the west of India. It was connected to the rest of India. And you can see the connections all over the place, even all the way down south, where you have the same kind of script with with some other characters in in places like Tamil Nadu. The Like look today, look at India today. We have north, west, east, south south east, north north, south, east, west of India, right? Very large subcontinent. And it's all interconnected. You go to Assam, you will see a certain script, certain kind of culture. You go to Tamil Nadu, you go to Kerala, you will see something totally different. You go to Kashmir, you go to Ladakh, you go to Haryana, Punjab, totally different kind of culture. Apparently, superficially, it will be very different. Go to western India, Gujarat, Kutch, Sindh, Balochistan, very different culture once again, apparently. But all interconnected. All part of a of a greater whole that is just one overall thing. Similarly, during the Saraswati Sindhu time, you had the same thing. India was interconnected. It was not isolated. It was not a separate civilization. So, the Indus Valley phase, the Harappan phase, or the Saraswati Sindhu phase is just one period of our history. It is our history. We are the continuation of the same thing, of the so-called Indus Valley Civilization. It never disappeared. It never died out. It continued, and here we are. We are part of that. All right? Okay, now I have 27 super chats. It's never going to end. All right, let me see. What next do we have? Okay, I'm going to take questions for maybe 10 minutes more, cuz I can't take them forever. Um VSVS says, "Grim Grivok is Kanglu Mia from Superpower Bangladesh." I have no idea what that means. Who is Grim Grivok? Who is Grim Grivok? Um I have no idea who's Grim Grivok, but okay, thank you for letting me know, sir. Thank you. Um "Whose side should a man take if there's a clash between his mom and wife? Why should an you know, innocent man do in the side of type of situation?" Listen, this is a geo This is a history episode. I have no idea about clash between mom and wife. Uh maybe I'm not the right person to ask this question. All right, sir. And anyway, today I'm discussing history. >> [clears throat] >> James Our friend James is back. "Look at Manali, HP towns in Himachal Pradesh towns. They're becoming more unplanned and congested. Alpine towns thrive, beautiful. No wonder all good civilizations run in the west. Um the problem in many of these towns in various parts of India. One of the major problems is the large-scale infiltration and settlement of uh Bangladeshi, Rohingya, etc. infiltrators. Now what how is this being done? What is the modus operandi? What are the logistical things they're doing? Who all is is complicit in this at local scale, at larger scale? I will not go into that. But one of the major problems why towns even in beautiful parts of India like Himachal Pradesh etc. are getting becoming unlivable is because of this in in illegal infiltration. The settlement of illegal infiltrators in in all these places. 20 years ago there was no in no Bangladeshis etc. in these places. Now it's they're all over the place. And clearly the government at the local level, at the central level would know about this. So I'm not sure what is happening, why it's happening. And these are some of the reasons why you have all [clears throat] these problems that are that are present. And you know what? To make a town or a city livable takes effort. And for that to happen you need people who are who are genuinely invested in making the country better and making the city or the town better. But typically you don't have that in India. These are the reasons why you have all these issues in India. And what are the root causes of that? It's it goes back to the British occupation era and the kind of mess they left behind. But yeah, let's not go that's too much of a long discussion to have right now. But anyway, James, thank you for pointing this out, sir. Did I watch Tondar? I haven't watched it yet. I haven't watched it yet and I look forward to watching it in the next couple of days. I just need to find some time. It's a pretty long movie. I need to find like three, four hours somewhere that I can go and watch it. Maybe I'll do it in the next couple of days. I definitely I'm going to watch it. VSVS says James need to be needs to be humble. Well, James, I in my opinion is a good guy. I appreciate James. He brings out interesting uh things to discuss, asks interesting questions in his own unique way. So yeah, I appreciate James. Amisha says, "When did the sexualization of female breasts begin? Is the objectification of the female form purely sociological or is it baked into the human species?" When did the sexualization of female breasts begin? I think this nonsense comes from Look, um I'm not sure. I mean, if you look at Indian um sculptures from the pre-occupation era almost every female form female sculpture is depicted bare bare-chested, bare-breasted. So clearly it was not something that was taboo and it was not something that was so that was sexualized. Right? In India at least. >> [clears throat] >> It looks like based on the the the the sculptures and carvings that are all over the subcontinent from before the occupation era like like before 1000 AD it's like prevalent everywhere that females had their chests uncovered and there there was nothing taboo or sexual about it. So when did this start? I suppose it may have started with um I'm not really sure. [laughter] When did the when did females start to have have to start covering up in India? That obviously starts with the uh you know, the the gradual creeping Turkic occupation of India with their foreign culture which regarded uncovered women as pieces of meat. That we know, but when did the sexualization of female breasts start? I'm not really sure. I haven't really thought about that and um is it purely sociological? Is it baked in the human species? Um some of it may to some extent be baked into human species. Is it social Some of it may be so maybe it's it's a combination of the two factors. But it's not something I've given much thought to so I don't really have maybe the best answer to this. Sorry about that. Okay. Um VSVS says what Amisha is asking began mainly after the Victorian era. This was never an issue in ancient India before the invasions. The sexualization of the female form, all that. Uh definitely. No. It it the the the requirement to cover up the female body, I think it it started with the creeping Turkic occupation of India. And obviously the Victorian era morals were like it was very similar to the Arabic morals, right? Women have to be completely modest, covered. Not a single um >> [snorts] >> inch of skin should be visible apart from the face, you know, your hands have to be covered by gloves. Even showing ankles is is naughty and that sort of nonsense, right? So yeah. So it was like you say, it was never an issue in ancient India before the foreign occupation of India. Right, VSVS. Um VSVS gifted 10 memberships. Well, that is very kind of you, sir. Very kind of you. Thank you very much. Ankita Kachhap Ankitaji has gifted 10 memberships. Thank you so much, ma'am. I really appreciate you. Thank you. VSVS has give gifted 50 memberships. Good lord, good gods. Thank you very much, sir. That's really indeed very kind of you and very helpful. Um you're helping a lot of people. Thank you so much. Jagjit Singh is a new member. Thank you very much, Jagjit Singhji, and welcome to the membership of this channel. Thank you very much. My uh Su- Sugandh says, "My opinion on Palki Sharma." Look, I don't express opinions about private people. Not public people. I will have opinions about people that matter at a global scale. Maybe Donald Trump. Definitely Donald Trump, definitely Narendra Modi, definitely Vladimir Putin, definitely Xi Jinping, definitely Elon Musk, Steve Jobs, historical figures, etc. I speak about these people that genuinely matter at the global level, people who are genuinely impactful. Uh I do not comment about other people. There's no point. Otherwise this becomes a gossip channel, right? What do I think of this person? Should I criticize that person? I I'm not going to do that. All right? But anyway, thank you for the question. And Abhinav Singh has gifted 20 memberships. Well, thank you so much all of you and including you, sir. Abhinav Singhji, thank you so much. Um Bijou Saikia says, "In the past being atheistic was being an atheist was was punishable offense in Christianity. Then how today so many Europeans have become atheists?" Because Christianity has lost ground significantly in Europe. Christianity is the majority of Europeans have given up on Christianity. They probably have seen through what Christianity really is. And because of the effects of what the Europeans call the Enlightenment, Enlightenment and the effects of the French Revolution and the ripple effect it has had on large-scale European society, there's been a you know, the introduction of what the French called laïcité. What in the west is called secularism, which is different from Indian secularism. In Indian secularism in India secularism means Hinduphobia. In Europe secularism means the separation of church and state. Which means the church no longer is the authority to issue laws and you know, um influence the state or control the state. Which was the main source of power the church had. So once that happened the church became kind of powerless and that's how people just walked away from the church, from Christianity. And that's how it happened. Uh is very naughty name. Yes. Is not is very bad. Is very bad. What was the TFR like in the ancient world? I'm not sure, man. I'm not sure what the TFR was like in the ancient world. I've not studied TFR data from the ancient world so I can't say. Um it would have been different at different points in time. There were times when there were population bottlenecks on the planet and when you only had apparently a few thousand humans who survived. Maybe during the the aftermath of the Toba supervolcano eruption. Indians in India Indians did survive, but apparently there was a population bottleneck and so on. >> [clears throat] >> So when you have such bottleneck events and you have the founder effect etc. the TFR is very low for a while. For maybe a few decades etc. And there were times, you know, for the longest time the population of the world was just just a few millions. It is estimated uh that during the peak of the Saraswati Sindhu phase of our history the population in northern western India total combined was about 5 million possibly. 5 million. It's 50 lakhs. As you can see the TFR would have been good but the overall population was very low. So it depends and I don't really have the statistics, the data, the figures. Can't say, but it has varied at different points in time in history. Okay, VSVS has again gifted 10 memberships. Thank you. Thank you so much. And everybody also thank whoever is received the membership I'm sure is very grateful to you, sir. Uh Bijou Saikia says, "I was reading an article by an expert who predicted that in the coming years Hindi will become more and more Sanskritized and most of the Persian words, phrases will be replaced by English. What's my view? I have no idea. Will Hindi become more Sanskritized? I think you have you know, an increasing intro-gression of English vocabulary into Indian parlance. I just used a French word here, but uh see >> [clears throat] >> people now regularly use English English words and expressions in their conversations in Indian languages. So, I'm not sure about Sanskritization. I think there's more and more adoption of English or whatever. I don't think it's a very healthy thing and I have nothing against Sanskritization. I think I would I would very much welcome it. I would welcome the purification of the Hindi language. I have no issue with Persian Persian language also, but my point is we should use our own languages. Will this happen? I don't know for sure. If this happens, I'll be very happy with it. I will welcome it. Uh but replacing Persian words with English, I would actually want to stick with Persian more than English. Uh Ideally, we should Sanskritize rather than you know, have English words coming in. But will this happen? Will it not happen? I can't predict the future. Can't say really. Mm Okay, so I will not What are some blunders of the of modern India 1947 to present? Look, there are millions of blunders. One of the blunders is the partition of India. The second blunder is um not accepting, you know, the accession of various provinces back into India. The repudiation of Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan who wanted Afghanistan to to remain united with India. The giving up of various territories which should have been ours. >> [clears throat] >> Um you know, rejecting multiple offers for a permanent seat on the seat on the UN Security Council. I can, you know, not nuclearizing after 1974 when we tested a nuclear weapon and so much more. The blunders go on and on and on. Right? Allowing Pakistan to become a nuclear weapon state state. I could do a three-hour session on blunders, actually. Uh Suganth says, "You are my geopolitical guru. Much appreciation from Tamil Nadu. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, sir." Lot of evidence is that shows that Tamil was subordinate to Sanskrit in What's my opinion? Thank you very much. What's my opinion? This is a super controversial topic. Whichever answer I give you, I will get lot of flak and backlash. Um Look, if you look at the his- this the history of Tamil Nadu, the Sangam period, etc. It It's said to go back 10,000 years. And if you look at the archaeological evidence that we have off the coast of Tamil Nadu, we have submerged cities that are now known to exist like a hundred 150 m below the sea level. And those cities would only have been above sea level like 10,000 years ago. But does it mean that 10,000 years ago people in this region spoke Tamil? Or was it proto-Tamil? Was it some other language? We don't know for sure. Was Tamil subordinate to subordinate to Sanskrit? >> [clears throat] >> I don't know about subordinate. We know for a fact, look, that the Chola kings used Sanskrit. No question about it. The Cholas claimed descent from the Suryavanshi dynasty, the Ikshvaku dynasty. The Cholas were Shaivites. The The Cholas were unapologetic Hindus, right? And they used Sanskrit. They They brought Sanskrit to various parts of Southeast Asia. So, even for the Cholas who were native Tamil speakers, they regarded Sanskrit as the civilizational language. So, if you can regard that as evidence that Sanskrit was regarded as a higher language by the greatest of the Tamil emperors, then I think it does stand. But look, I'm not I don't want to get into this battle of which is better, which is superior, which is higher, which is lower. I think we need to go beyond these battles and all these petty fights, you know? The world wants us to keep fighting each other. We should Instead of fighting each other, we should unite. >> [clears throat] >> I'm sure all the languages of India have very ancient lineages and uh what we know for sure is that Sanskrit, you know, was the language of the Saraswati Sindhu phase of our history, the Indus script, if you can call it that, does encode Sanskrit. It can also encode any other language if you want to, but Yeah, so it's a complicated topic. My point is we should cherish all of our languages, Sanskrit as well as Tamil, as well as all the other great languages of India. And we should instead of fighting, unite and take the country forward. And that brings me to the end of today's uh super chats and live stream. It is Look, now Vladimir Putin wants me wants my opinion on somebody else. Like I said Like I said, I don't express opinion on ordinary people like like me or I only express an opinion about people who have a global impact at a global scale on the world. If I start expressing my opinion about this person, that YouTuber, this news reader, etc., then this becomes a gossip channel and that's not my intention ever. All right? And we have one more super chat. VSBS says question by Neeraj Desai, "If Ashoka converted to Buddhism, how come his mention is Devanampriya, which is contradictory to Buddhist beliefs that God don't exist?" >> [clears throat] >> Good question. Okay, this will be the final question of the day. After that, if there's any more super chat, I will not be able to take it because I've already reached almost 3 hours. So, uh it is said that Ashoka converted to Buddhism. First of all, in Dharmic paths, there is no conversion. Okay? You decide to start walking this path, that is your choice, but you don't have to convert for that. But now it is said that Ashoka converted to Buddhism. That's what our history books tell us. Converted. They use the word conversion. So, if Ashoka converted to Buddhism, he became a Buddhist, then why does he refer to himself as Devanampriya, Priyadarshi, in his inscriptions almost everywhere? Devanampriya means the beloved of the gods. Now, if you're a Buddhist, how can you say that you are the beloved of the gods? Because apparently, according to Buddhist belief, God don't exist doesn't exist. Well, please understand this. Today we look at Buddhism in a certain way. But according to what is called Buddhism, Buddhism doesn't say that gods don't exist. Buddhism said says that gods are impermanent. That's what Buddhism says. But that is the opinion of the Buddhist path of Dharma. We have so many different paths of Dharma. Dharmic paths. You have Charvaka which says that nothing exists. The only word is the is the world that you see. There is no soul, there is no Atman, there is no God, whatever. So, there is also a valid path in Dharma. So, according to the Buddha path, gods exist, but they are not permanent. They are impermanent. So, Ashoka was pushing Buddhism on the country, on the civilization, right? And he wanted to rule a huge population which had lots of people who belong to various different Dharmic paths. And to rule them all, you have to be the ruler of them all by essentially keeping them all happy. So, you call yourself Devanampriya Priyadarshi, the beloved of all the gods. That works and it is not contrary to Buddhism. Okay, that brings me to the actual end of this live stream. Thank you very much, everybody. It's been almost 3 hours. It has been fun. I enjoyed this. Took a lot of very interesting questions, including the super chats and and I would like to thank everybody who has uh donated memberships to various people. Thank you so much. It's very kind of you. And uh So, all right. That brings me to the end of today's live stream. Thank you very much for the questions. Keep asking questions. Keep Keep Keep Keep Keep raising your standards. And I look forward to seeing you in tomorrow's live stream, which is going to be an ask me anything. You can ask me anything on the super chat. Look forward to seeing you there. Take care. I'll see you tomorrow.