[Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Hello everybody. Good day and good evening to all of you wherever you are in the world and welcome to episode 271 of the Askabil show. I hope everybody is doing great and today I'm going to take questions that you all have asked in the comments. I've chosen about 20 or so questions um and I'm going to take those and I saw that a bunch of questions came in in the past 1 hour but I was not able to take those. So in the future if you want to ask questions please ask them like you know an hour or two before the show starts because at the last minute I can't really pick and choose questions select questions. Uh with that said let's see who all is there on the live chat. I can say Vamshi Kalem anonymous scientist chat DSP Sujit Shaagandha the civilizational warrior Vidan Singh Jagish Mali Barat first Anand Pai uh who else we have Blitzkrieg chat PS DSP again Vidash Dalmutra Kapil Shrimp Hunter Canve Shivasai Amisha Mishra Mr. Saka Duvya Aayush Singh Vimla Chodri U Shubhham Sik Shriyan GK U Geopolitical Di from Indor Krishna Gunar from the Surinamese Netherlands uh Shou Agarwal Panipal from Kolkata Rashmi Rat from Rajasthan Shri Ran Chandra Namaha Jiram Rahul Dunak Navin Kumar Kub Bhagwat Omar Nilab engineer Naven Kumar wooden armor PK Deep Patel from Australia 12:30 in the night in Australia Bad Deep Patel is watching. Thank you so much for being on the live chat sir. Uh Himman Shukla, Abi Abishek, Vidant, Eclipse Files, Hari, Chan, Gokul, Mlab, Jesam, uh J Alan, J Victor, who else we have? Rutij, Aush Si, uh Reina, Tari, Ankita, hello, the civilizational warrior, Jirroj Kamat, uh Varun, Reddi, and so many other people. Master Diddy's something or the other. uh Eclipse files and everybody else. So uh thank you so much for being on on on the show. I really appreciate that. And with that said, I think we should start taking some questions. Just give me a second. I need to pull something up so that we can um where do we have it? Right here we have it. Okay. So let's get going with the questions. What's the first question that we have for today? And it's going to be interesting questions. We're going to start with this. Uh so we have Sur and Adita Gag. Uh okay. Thank you so much Suresh. Uh the question is recently released recording of Ahmedabad flight accident. It has a conversation where they say that the line of fuel or something was cut off where both day uh they didn't etc. Is there a possibility of sabotage behind this? your analogy of analogy uh flight experienced flight pilots one experienced another also somewhat experienced no conclusion in the report they say possibility of sabotage uh some say pilot mistake I think sabotage what what's my opinion is what you want to know and should Boeing be saved despite the questions raised on the standards of the aircraft they manufacture and possible manufacturing defects that could have caused the crash in Gujarat uh as the global aero economic depends on the trust shown on Boeing and if that collapses it might create the global chaos is that the reason the reports were first intentionally leaked to the US first yeah and official statements were made in India after that okay all kinds of questions obviously everybody is very concerned about what's happening uh this report has come out recently right the AIB report has come out the AIB is an Indian government organization the aircraft accident investigation bureau right it's a division of the ministry of uh civil aviation government of India and its job is to investigate aircraft accidents and incidents in India. Now this AIB has come up with this report and the report raises more questions and answers and the report seems to deliberately you know give information that is unimportant and it seems to skip information that is crucial to our understanding of what happened. It's telling you what time at what second the plane started taxiing towards the runway and what second it did something or the other. But the crucial evidence as to when the engines were cut off, at exactly what time did the aircraft start rolling, rotating, what time did the wheels take off from the ground, at what time did the actual uh engine cut off happened, what time were the switches flipped or whatever, you know, the fuel fuel switches flipped. Uh what was the maximum altitude that the that the aircraft achieved? What was the maximum speed the aircraft achieved? The entire second by-c chronology is not given. They have not released a transcript or a recording of the conversation between the pilots. They're putting selective selected you know cherrypicked things here and there possibly out of context. There is no signature on the uh AIB report preliminary report. There are tremendous inconsistencies and red flags in the report this preliminary report. And uh you know I am not a pilot but our friend Gorov Tanja flying beast is a pilot and he's put out an excellent series of three videos on his channel. I would highly re recommend you watch this those three videos in which he has completely totally shown the how how bad this report is and how many questions it raises and he says that he has no he doesn't have any you know confidence in the AIB and obviously if they don't put a put signatures on the report and they release the report in the middle of the night like 2:00 a.m. 3:00 a.m. or 1:00 a.m. whatever time it was India time and if they leak the report 24 hours before releasing it in India to the to the Wall Street Journal there are lots of questions that are going to be raised right it looks like the engines failed immediately at the point of takeoff not when you when the aircraft starts rotating which means the nose lifts up but it looks like the engines failed immediately when the the the wheels left the ground or maybe a second after that. And there is a clear procedure when dual engine failure happens that you take the fuel switches, you cut them off, then you put them on. And that's what the pilots did. And that happens only a few seconds after the the uh dual engine failure happens. And immediately when the when the jet engines fail, the aircraft doesn't lose power immediately because of inertia. It will keep rising for a while and the speed will actually increase for a while. It's only after that is done when that that momentum is dissipated that the aircraft starts going down. So there are tremendous questions. There are huge red flags in this AIB report and uh you know Boeing has Boeing used to have the greatest safety record track record of of all the aircraft manufacturers but there have been lots of problems with Boeing in the recent past and they have been caught red-handed trying to you know cover up things. There's this system that they had on the Boeing 737 Max, this MCCast system that was faulty and they did not even tell the world and the pilots of the world that this system was installed on the aircraft and the system would try and hijack the aircraft when when the when the angle of attack sensors would be defective and it'll try and pitch the nose down 10 seconds down and then the pilots will try and pull it off for 5 seconds and again the uh the the computer will take out and start pitching the nose down for for 10 seconds and eventually it leads to crashes. So there was a Lion Air crash in Indonesia I think 2018 or 2019 and a few months later there was a Ethiopian uh aircraft that crashed because of that crashed because of this this system that Boeing tried to hide. It's a completely new system they had installed on the aircraft Boeing 737 Max aircraft and they did not and and if you install a new system like that you have to have the pilots trained on that but Boeing did not even tell any airline that this new system is there and even after they realized that it caused the first crash they still did not take any action and then second crash happened. First, Indonesia out of Jakarta. Secondly, Ethiopia out of Adis Ababa, lots of problems. So, Boeing has these issues. Their quality standards have dropped drastically in the in the recent years. Uh, and they are known to hide such things. And when the first crash happened, the Lion Air crash out of Jakarta, they tried to blame the pilot. The pilots, there was an Indian pilot who was flying the aircraft. Obviously you have two pilots right in in an aircraft. One of them was Indian. They tried to lay the blame on the pilots. Even when the second aircraft crashed, the the Ethiopian one, they again tried to tried to blame the pilots despite knowing full well that they were entirely responsible for this. So I you know I think uh the government of India the prime minister's office needs to look into this uh this this uh investigation this preliminary investigation report that's been released by the AI AIB aircraft accident investigation bureau uh we cannot trust it. They have not even bothered to put this you know the the the AIB heads signature on the report. a report without any signatures. It means they're trying to cover them their backsides because they know that this is there there is something super wrong with the report. So I think this needs to be looked into by the at the highest level but this is a international incident accident. This is a this is a question of India's safety record. It's a question of the safety of of passengers who fly every day. Thousands of flights right and hundreds of thousands of people probably fly every day. This is a very sensitive matter and and who is it that that's on the board of the AIB? Each of those individuals needs needs to be investigated. Who is the person or who are the persons who leaked the report to the to the Wall Street Journal 24 hours before it was released in the middle of the night in India. Who are those people? They are government of India officials. There are tremendous problems. Ive I've I've said this right? I've said this so many times. At the root of every problem in India is corruption. So uh I don't know see I can't tell what the what the cause of the crash is but it's clearly a dual engine failure that happened at the moment of liftoff or just after liftoff like a second or two after liftoff. That's what happened. But what caused the dual engine failure? That's the big mystery. That is the big mystery and I don't have the answer right now. That's what the government needs to look into. You have the the the two recorders, right? The voice recorder and the data recorder. They will have all the answers. Those need to be investigated by professionals, by competent authorities, not by I don't know people who apparently may be compromised. That's what needs to happen. Huge problem here. Huge problem. Um I don't believe for one microscond for one for for one nancond that the pilots are responsible for what happened. I don't think the pilots caused this crash. I think they tried their best to fight to to ensure the the you know to to make to save the aircraft as as as much as possible until the very end. That's what it looks like. Uh but as usual they'll try and blame the the pilots. the pilots aren't here to defend themselves. You know, they died. Uh, and uh, so I am not going to at this point in time point fingers at at maybe an aircraft manufacturer, maybe a nation or whatever. My question is who the I mean what the what happened with the AIB report. They did not even have the courage to put their signatures on the report. Huge problem there. You need we need to start the investigation with the with the people who who wrote that report with the people with the person or persons who leaked the report to the west to the Wall Street Journal and the Wall Street Journal seems to know everything more than what the government of India knows right now as if they have the full recording of of the of the conversation it looks like how did they get their hands on all of this and and if the Wall Street Journal has it why isn't it being released by the government of India to the people of India the entire recording the not the not the transcript, the recording itself, the audio recording. There are huge red flags here. So, I uh I don't know if it's sabotage or whatever. I know there's all kinds of speculation. What I am clear about is that this is like almost certain to be a dual engine failure that happened at the point of liftoff or maybe just a second or so after liftoff after the wheels left the ground. and the the fuel switches were set to cut and then back to on as part of the procedure that you're supposed to do when there's a dual engine failure. So that's what the pilots did later a few seconds after the dual engine failure happened. Uh so that's what I can say at this time. Boeing obviously will want this to be categorized as pilot error. The United States will want this to be categorized as pilot error. The question is why is the AIB aiding them in this? Uh so the government of India is very quiet right now and it looks like the full investigation report may take a year or so. I don't know. But if there is a problem with Boeing aircraft in the meanwhile, I mean are we going to wait one year until the report comes out? What if there are more such incidents in the meanwhile? Do we want more people to die? So that's the deal. I I don't have the answer right now. But I am 100% crystal clear about the fact that the pilots did not do this deliberately. They fought until the end to save the aircraft. They had the training kick in. They did everything as per the training and as per the the manual and as per the memory items. That's what they did. And to blame the pilots say you're trying to save somebody. So who is it that you're trying to save? AIB. That's the question. So that's what I have to say at this point in time. I don't have the answers. the answers are buried deep in the data that's part of the data recorder that that was recorded in the data recorder in the in the cockpit voice recorder those need to be investigated and please don't leak those to the Wall Street Journal or whoever so there are big question there are many more questions that actually uh you know need to be answered so uh yeah it's it's a mystery right now and clearly there seems to be some kind of cover up going on right our own people are they seem to be part of the cover up. So I think the prime minister's office need to needs to look into this personally and get to the bottom of the matter as soon as possible. Don't please don't wait for a year. Okay? There could be more lives at stake. Everyday people are flying on Boeing aircraft in in the country all across the world. Innocent people, completely innocent people. We don't want more lives to be lost. Boeing has the has a track record when it comes to the 737 Max of uh trying to suppress what they knew was a fatal flaw in the aircraft. Uh and and you know was this sabotage? I don't know. I I I don't know at this point in time. Uh we have discussed kill switches in the past in the context of military aircraft, haven't we? We have discussed that. What's a kill switch? A kill switch is uh something that can be remotely activated by the original equipment manufacturer remotely. So maybe the equipment was manufactured on the other side of the planet and it's been sold to country X. Okay. And maybe under certain conditions the manufacturer doesn't want country X to be able to uh operate the equipment. So maybe they can remotely disable the equipment. That's called a kill switch and such things. This is not science fiction. This is very feasible. We have discussed examples of this in the past, haven't we? The FA18 fighter planes that the Americans sold to the Australians in the 1980s. What happened to those? What happened? Those the Australians were not able to use them. They were not able to uh lock the target acquisition systems onto targets of their choice. And this persisted for like more than two decades until they were able to crack the system. Israel had sold some weapons systems to Azarbaijan and a few years ago during a period of tensions between Israel and Azarbaijan. The weapon systems mysteriously failed to failed to work. Right? This is nothing new. Kill switches. You can remotely disable equipment. So is it possible that you could have kill switches in commercial civilian aircraft? If you can have them in military aircraft, why can't you have them in commercial aircraft? I mean this MCAST system, that's an example of a kill switch. That's an example you could say of a kill switch. If the angle of attack sensor is disabled for some reason or or it you you make it transmit faulty information to the computer, MCAST kicks in and kills the aircraft. So, you know, there's a lot of possibilities out there. But right now, we don't have the answers. So, my point is that this this report that has been put out by AIB that raises huge red flags. The entire personnel of the AIB needs to be investigated and uh the report needs to be looked into. What are they trying to hide and who are they trying to help? That's what I would say. Okay. Right. Uh WRV says why is it that some countries have accepted very unfair trade deals like with the US like Indonesia recently did a trade deal with the US where they have to remove all tariffs while the US gets to keep 19% and Indonesia has pledged to purchase $15 billion worth of US energy $4.5 billion in agricultural products 50 Boeing jets 50 boeing okay not airbing jets wonderful many of them the long hole 777 models. Why didn't Indonesia accept a US trade pack with non reciprocal unilateral market access in exchange for a 19% tariff gap despite the significant economic and political trade-offs and what strategic policy framework should India adopt to avoid similar dependencies while strengthening its negotiating position? So I looked into this uh I have this report here okay an overview of the recent US Indonesia trade deal. Incredible. What are the key terms of the agreement? Key terms. Let's let's say the key terms. Um tariffs on Ind Indonesian exports. The US has agreed to lower very kindly, very magnanimously, the US has agreed to lower its proposed tariff on Indonesian goods from 32% to a uniform 19%. Okay, very kind, very magnanimous of the US. And this is the reduction from the earlier threat. It is still significantly higher than the previous average of about 5% that was applied that applied in 2024. Okay. Now access for US exports, American goods with very minor exceptions like alcoholic beverages and pork will enter Indonesia tariff-free. No tariffs on American goods except for alcoholic stuff and and pork which Indonesians don't like. Additionally, US products are exempt from Indonesia's local content rules and certain import quotas. So blanket exemption for US exports except for pork and alcohol. Well, yeah. Now, what about purchases by Indonesia in exchange for this magnanimous reduction, okay, from 32 to 19%. Indonesia has committed to buying about $15 billion in energy, American energy exports, oil, natural gas, etc., etc. Indonesia's committed to purchasing uh $4.5 billion in US agricultural goods including GMOs, GMO products, multi-year commitment for wheat and other staples. Indonesia has also committed to buying 50 Boeing aircraft for its national airline Guda Garuda Airlines. Right. Uh trade compliance. Indonesia has agreed to enforce measures to prevent US-bound goods being rerouted or transcripped from third countries especially China. Um this makes Indonesia the Assean country with the lowest U US tariff under US recent recent US trade actions uh and so on. So tremendous tariff asymmetry. Yeah. US goods receive almost full access to the Indonesian market without any tariffs. almost no tariffs, but Indonesian exports to the US will be subject to a substantial 19% tariff, four times higher than the previous average. It puts Indonesian exporters at a tremendous disadvantage, right? And Indonesia is is compelled to buy these huge specific purchases of US goods, energy, agriculture, aircraft, about 20 billion in total, maybe more. And uh how did this agreement come about? So the agreement came from the US threatening extremely high tariffs. Uh it's like that gun to the head. Take it or leave it. Yeah. you either accept 19% or we will put 500 or thousand% or god knows what. This is called gun to the head diplomacy. Right? So that's what the Americans have done to Indonesia and the Indonesian government is saying it's the best possible outcome because you know they alternative was was was you know something you can't imagine um and so on. So this is this is like Indonesia has been made to capitulate by the by the Americans. Uh that's the deal. So that's what happens when you are the superpower. You can put a gun to someone's head and make them accept whatever you want. And then you said that you know magna I will magnanimously bring the tariffs down from 32% like I had promised earlier to only 19%. But you cannot you know impose any tariffs any substantial significant tariffs on my goods. What kind of policies are these? These are East India Company policies. The US is going to bear Indonesia and it's going to bear everybody else. Turn everybody into beggars. That's what they're trying to do. That's what they intend to do. And uh well, if you are Indonesia, if you are a smaller, weaker country, what is it that you can do about it? The the choice is either 19% or 3,000%. What you going to do? And then you to purchase uh agricultural products and energy exports and and 50 aircraft. It's like paying tribute. It's like a vasal paying tribute to his overlord. It's like Judea paying tribute to Rome. It's like sis alpine or transalpine go paying tribute to Rome. every year you have to go and give them x amount of gold and y amount of whatever else and these many numbers of slaves and much more. This is the same tribute system. The US is an empire, my friends. And now they're behaving like an empire. It's no longer subtle and and sophisticated. Now it's out in the open. So that is the deal. I'm I'm feel sorry for Indonesia, but such is the world. I mean the world has always always operated this way. the past 70 years or 80 years was this was an aberration a period of and yeah it was an aberration. Now we are back to standard imperial tactics. So uh the question now is what strategic policy framework should India adopt to avoid similar situation and strengthening its negotiating position. Well, one of the leverages we have is that u um we are the only nation in Asia that is willing to stand up to China and can act as a genuine counterbalance to China. Right? That's one leverage we have and the US needs India when it comes to uh counterbalance in China. India is a critical component of India of the US's uh so-called Indopacific strategy. India is a member of the Quad and much more right. Um and we also have the option of if required if the Americans push us too far we can even somehow find it you know come to a deal with China possibly who knows so we have uh options we have leverage uh the Americans have also well it's not like they don't have leverage they are currently threatening 500% tariffs on India right Lindsey Graham's uh bill which is getting tremendous bipartisan support anyone who trades with Russia and purchases Russian oil is is could potentially be subject to 500% tariffs. So that's a threat that's dangling over overhead. Trump is also threatening that, right? Uh and they want us to accept their third rate agricultural exports, genetically modified organisms and you know ghastly stuff. All the stuff that makes Americans sick. It riddles Americans with cancer and obesity and diabetes and whatnot. They want to export it to us. The government is saying no. And that's why the trade deal did not happen by the July 9 deadline. Now it's August 1 or something. We'll see about that. Yeah. Uh so we are not in the same position as Indonesia but we are in a similar position. Uh there are certain differences between India and Indonesia obviously I don't think I will explain that. Um so it's it's terrible what what the Americans have done to to Indonesia. These are East India Company tactics. Absolutely. This is exactly how the East India Company destroyed India. India's economy. India was the world's first fully industrialized civilization. You are not taught this in your school in your in your history books. We were a fully industrialized society. The British destroyed that. How did they destroy it? By uh by using the same tactics. U they opened up the Indian economy to extremely cheap exports of third rate material from the UK textiles and whatnot. and they imposed extremely high tariffs on Indian exports which made Indian exports unviable and it destroyed India's industries and they also used a whole different range of tactics. So they completely de-industrialized India. They poorized beggarized India. On top of that they imposed hundreds of artificial famines and so on. So uh this is you know same tactics we are seeing over here and we're going to see much more of that. This is just the beginning of the uh American trade war on the world. They're trying to destroy the entire system they have themselves built. Well, there you have it. Okay. Danush says is the in the current climate in the west with all their Russia secondary sanctions threats and increased pressure on India they're putting regarding the India Russia relationship. Do you think it's actually feasible for India to actually purchase the Sukoy 57 in this current geopolitical climate? And if not, what options does India really have? Because the F-35 is obviously a no no and AMCA will take time. Can India still handle Pakistan in this case? Right? So we have this current geopolitical climate. The US is saying that anybody who trades with Russia will get these secondary sanctions and anybody who buys Russian oil will get 500% tariffs and whatnot. Yeah. All that stuff. and they are obviously singling out India often uh and sending this message to India that you know we will destroy destroy your economy if you deal with Russia. So then the question is the we know that the Russians have offered the Suka 57 with apparently complete transfer of technology to India and local manufacturing to India. I think it's a great deal. Uh some genius experts are saying this the F-35 is better. The F-35 is a better aircraft and the Suka 57 stealth characteristics aren't that great. Who cares? It's a fifth generation fighter plane. Even if it is just okay out of 100, if it gets a score of even 4550, it's still a fifth generation fighter plane. And we can absorb the technology and make it better iterative iteratively. It's better than having nothing, right? The AMCA will will roll out in what 2030 31 you will have the first quadrants, you know, by 2035 or something. You want to wait 10 years for that to happen? No. And the F-35 is absolutely no. No. The day we purchased the F-35, I will announce officially that we are now a US Vasal. Okay. The F-35 is a no no. It's a flying trash can. Terrible aircraft. Extremely expensive and riddled with kill switches and back doors. The moment you purchase that, you are officially a vasal of the US. You have lost your sovereignty. F-35 is a no no. It's a no-go for us. The AMC will take time. Suko 57, the Americans could impose crushing sanctions on India if we purchase that. The Russians would like us to buy it and they are apparently offering full technology transfer local production and integration with the with the Sukoy 35 MKI ecosystem. So, it'll be very easy for India to start producing and using the F Sukoy 57. It's actually a good deal in my opinion. So what options does India have? What options do we have? Well, let's say we can't we obviously can't buy the F F-35. Garbage AMCA another 10 years. We can't wait for that. So 57 too much American pressure. We can't buy it. So what do we do? What do we do? Have you heard of the Safh deal? I'm I'm I'm hearing that India and France have finalized a deal about the Safong engines uh which will um possibly there will be full technology transfer to India at a very high price obviously like I've been saying buy big borrow steel whatever the price buy it so it looks like that deal is being now being done so we will acquire Safh's jet engine technology and and jointly co-develop a 120 kon engine in the next few years now as long as this is a genuine deal and it happens happens and it doesn't take 10 years to finalize like it often does with India you know everything takes years and years of negotiating and all get it done fast and start producing the the engines in the next 5 years I think that's great if you can do that if that deal goes ahead and if it is a done deal and if it actually proceeds then I think we should just go ahead with the Rafal the Rafal isn't a bad aircraft it's a 4.5 generation fighter plane I think and we know how to operate it we we have very highly trained pilots pilots who have been operating it for quite a while the Rafal. So I think if the Suko 57 we can't get it, we can't accept it because of American too much American pressure and we obviously can't get the F-35 then the option is the HFAL get 1004 one whatever number of Rafal we need is a stop gap stop gap measure until we have the AMCA that's what I would say is the option that we have it's not a bad aircraft it's obviously not a fifth generation aircraft but it's not I mean it's better than nothing to get a bunch Profiles. Yeah, that could be the uh stop gap solution. And with that we come to the question of the Safhan engine. Nimish and Sergeant Skylon. India will be going with the French engine with full technology transfer in intellectual property. Does this mean we can start manufacturing these locally? India finally closed a deal for the co-development of a jet engine with Francis Safh for our AMC project with full technology transfer with for about 7 billion USD. What other critical military technologies should we focus on acquiring, co-developing, innovating next that would put India at the pinnacle of modern warfare? Look, forget about the pinnacle of modern warfare. We need a jet engine. That's a crucial critical uh piece of the puzzle. Once we have that, we're going to be in good shape, right? Then we can develop any kind of aircraft we want and put the jet engines on that. Forget about the pinnacle. We'll forget about flying. Let's first learn how to run. you know we we have we have learned how to walk now we will learn how to jog then then sprint then perhaps fly in the future so pinnacle of modern warfare we'll think of it later uh so I think the c critical military technology we need is obviously a fifth generation fighter plane and and a jet engine even more than the fifth generation fighter plane it's the jet engine that we need once we can manufacture that at home as many as we need as and when we need and that's it then we can develop any kind of aircraft we for and we are not dependent on somebody from outside on some external actor and we are no longer hostage to an external actor or actors as is as has been the case throughout our history. So one hears that this uh is going ahead we are going to pay 7 billion USD there's going to be co-development of a jet engine with Safhan and I don't know how long it takes hopefully we should be able So what does it mean? It means that we're going to start we're going to manufacture these locally in India. There's going to be full technology transfer and the intellectual property will be ours as well as the French. It'll be jointly owned. But we can do whatever with we want with it and we can even take in other different directions and we can have create derivative engines. We can improve the engine whatever it's up to us. But once we have a fully functional jet engine 120 kon newtons that is as good as anything the French have. Well, that is a huge relief for us, right? Which we can produce ourselves without having to import spare parts from somewhere else. So, I think that's the deal. So, I would hope that this becomes operationalized as full as poss as soon as possible and then the next 3 to 5 years we start manufacturing. If the negotiations go on for the next 3 to 5 years, then it's a joke. Okay? We've had enough of this nonsense. All talk talk talk going on forever. Yep. So the the manufacturing needs to start in the next 3 to 5 years. That's that's the deal. That's that's what I'm hoping for. If that does happen, well that's a huge problem solved for India. Yeah. Uh so so I think if this is indeed true what's being reported then it is extremely welcome news. Now, let's see if the Americans apply any pressure on the French because the Americans are known to backstab the French from time to time. The French recently had this deal with the Australians, the AUK US. No, not the AUK US deal, the the the uh the Scorpain submarine deal. Though the French were supposed to sell to the Australians a bunch of Scorpion submarines and this this deal was signed. It was proceeding and then the Americans armed twisted the Australians and the Australians said sorry France we are walking off out of the deal unilaterally and then the Australians went ahead with the Americans and they have this AUK US deal now right nuclear submarines extremely expensive nuclear submarines that the Australians will buy from the Americans and that will not really be owned by Australia they'll still be owned by the Americans more or less de facto so uh so there's always the danger of that that the Americans has become an arm twist the French but hopefully it doesn't happen and then it is great news for us. So I think it's it's great news um um that's this is being reported by the Indian media right now. I hope it is true. I hope we go ahead with this and I hope we operationalize this as soon as possible and I hope we start producing these engines within the next 3 to 5 years. That would be a huge problem solved for India and you know then yeah nations then nations like the US will have way less leverage over us. Right now the Americans I mean we have we have this deal with the Americans for those uh F404 or whatever engines for over ages fighter planes. We have paid the money and all that but they are not delivering it. Now this year they're going to deliver like now finally they have delivered one or two jet engines and by the end of this year they'll deliver another another 10 or 12. It's peanuts. It's peanuts. They're making India suffer like this despite us having signed the deal agreement and having paid for the jet engines. So that's what you can do. That's the kind of leverage the Americans have. Once we start manufacturing our own jet engines co-developed with France, then the Americans will have zero leverage over us in the matter of jet engines. And that's what we need to achieve as soon as possible. So I think it's great news. It's a great development. Sahil Patel says what does S Patel say? Uh well thank you first of all. Thank you very much. Aruna Shikim Bhutanachi not equivalent to area of Tibet in square kilometers. Okay. Why? All right. Fine. Hasn't India escalated the matter of Tibet being independent too far? Why? Why? Why? Why is it why has it gone too far? Why? And what does that have to do with the size and shape and and land area of Arunachal Pradesh, Tekkim, Bhutan, Nakai? It has nothing to do nothing to do with that. What we are doing is the right thing. We are ramping up the pressure on China in a very calibrated manner. It's symbolic pressure on China. They're not crossing any military red lines but this is this is these are diplomatic uh tactics and strategies and uh the Chinese themselves have you know caused this through their actions right uh they have come out openly in support of Pakistan they they are now not hiding it that they consider Pakistan to be a strategic asset for the for China against India and they will arm Pakistan as as much as possible and they were apparently sharing information in real time with Pakistan at the time of operation Synindur. So these are extremely hostile uh actions against India. Uh China is harboring uh anti-India terrorists on their soil. They have this guy the head of Ulfa right Pares Barua who resides in Yunan which is part of China occupied Yunan right. So they harbor anti-India terrorists. They do all kinds of things that hurt India's interests. Um they aid Pakistan. You got to do you got to give it back to them right to China. So we are now putting Tibet in the gray zone. Tibet essentially is now a disputed territory. That's what we are saying. And recently Dr. Jashunker visited Beijing as part of the SEO thing and he met with Mr. Xiinping after a bunch after I don't know a long time. And let's see where it goes. Is there a kind of they thought again threatening to happen? I mean last year the Chinese were saying that you know we want better relations with India and they we you know reduce the number of troops on both sides of the LAC India Tibet LAC last year uh for the first time after the Galwan incident and all. Um but the Chinese have been ramping up their infrastructure building activities on the on their side of the LAC. So it's not like they are you know uh trying to diffuse the tensions they're eating Pakistan they're harboring anti-india terrorists they're doing so all these things so obviously India has to respond in some kind it's not like we don't have any leverage we have leverage we have tremendous leverage the Tibetan government in exile is is in India the largest Tibetan diaspora is in India the highest ranking Buddhist spiritual leader in the world the Dalai Lama is a resident of India and so and so on so forth right so we are not we have not escalated the matter of Tibet being independent of whatever true are absolutely not we have not even started we need to go further it all depends on on how China on what China's attitude and approach and behavior is going to be like it has nothing to do with the size of Arunachal Pradesh and sikim and Bhutan and it has absolutely nothing to do with that so let's not try and equate this land area of this with the land area of that that's not how things work we have a tremendous amount of leverage over China and and and it it really China is really concerned about this China is rattled right so that's the deal so we need to use the Tibet issue Tibet is illegally illegitimately occupied brutally occupied by China is destroying Tibet's culture the Tibetan language they They they they have conducted cultural endemic genocide in Tibet. They have brutalized the people and this continues and they so this needs to be brought on in front of the world and we need to leverage this as much as possible. So uh we are doing the right thing. Okay. Malik said sorry for the stupid question really. Okay. Let's see what the question is. Uh why can't we have high resolution cameras stationed on the ground and many camera satellites which monitor aerial threats? Uh doesn't matter how much stealth capabilities it has can be shot using high camera station data and satellite realtime tracking. Forgive my ignorance. No, it's not. Look, you know what? It's actually a very good question. This is the kind of question that uh that forces you to answer from first principles. What's the set of differences between uh cameras and radars and why are radars better than cameras? I think these are the question kinds of questions that students need to ask and teachers need to be able to answer such questions. Right? It's not a stupid question. It's actually a very good question. Right? So the objective is to detect aircraft, right? That's the objective. Now like the Chinese have this proverb. It doesn't matter what color the cat is as long as it catches mice, right? I don't care if the cat was black or white or orange or whatever as long as it catches mice. So then why? So I don't care if it's a radar or a set of cameras or whatever as long as it does the best possible job in detecting aircraft. Right. Right. So then the question then is why do we why do militaries prefer radars and why not cameras? Is that a stupid question? It's not a stupid question. It's a great question. So the question then is that we have to ask ourselves is what is it that makes a good aircraft detection system? So what are the characteristics of a good a useful aircraft detection system? First of all, it should be able to detect aircraft early. If enemy aircraft are approaching my country, I want as much warning time as possible. I don't want to know about it when it's like 3 seconds away. I want to know about it when it is like still 500 km away. I need early warning. So, my system should be able to detect aircraft early. That's one. Secondly, it should be reliable. It should be able to catch detect almost all the aircraft that are coming towards me towards my country. It should not work only with 50% of the aircraft. It'll it'll catch 50% and 50% will just sneak through. That doesn't work. I want a very reliable robustly reliable system. Thirdly, uh I want my system to to avoid false alarms. often a set of balloons, birthday balloons filled with helium will be detected. H there's this movie, not movie, there's a song from the 1980s called 99 Lufta balloon by a German singer called Nina that is about this sort of scenario. So I don't want my system to mistake clouds or birds or balloons or other such objects for enemy aircraft. It should avoid false alarms. Then I want my system to work 247 in all kinds of weather, right? Whether it is snowy, whether it is rainy, whether it's foggy, whether it is nighttime, it should should work. Okay? So different weather patterns should not shut down my system. Then I want my system to show the exact location and the exact speed of the incoming aircrafts, right? and and also I want my system to be able to cover huge areas cheaply. I want my system to be able to protect my entire country without destroying my budget. Yeah. So that's the characteristics of of of a good reliable aircraft detection system. Now let's consider cameras. Do cameras work at night? Well, they can if if there is light. So cameras only work when there is light. So if my enemy aircraft they have all their warning lights, flashing lights on, then my cameras will detect them. But if my enemy aircraft which is coming towards me has switched off all lights and it's operating as stealthy as possible, my camera won't work. So will the camera work at night? Essentially no. Secondly, will my cameras, even if I have a thousand cameras, will they work in bad weather, rain, snow, night? No, it won't work. Thirdly, can my cameras see over the horizon? The horizon if if you are at at ground level is about what 7 miles 10 km 10 11 12 km that's the horizon can my camera see over the horizon it can't even if my if I have my camera at let's say 50 m height it may still not see too far away right uh so my cameras can't see over the horizon now if I have a set of cameras will they tell me at what distance the aircraft is currently which is which it has detected? No. Will it tell me what direction it's coming in? No. Is is is is a set of cameras good for early warning like I want like if it's 500 km away, I want I want to know about it. No, it's not. Now, let's consider radars. Do radars work at night? Yes, they work at night. Do radars work in bad weather? Radars work in bad bad weather. Can radars see over the horizon? Well, some types of radars can see over the horizon. Okay. depending on what what the type is. But yeah, it can in principle see over the horizon. Uh, does a radar show me the distance that the aircraft is from me? Yes, absolutely. It shows me exactly how far the aircraft is. And is a radar system good for early warning? It's excellent. And then satellites. Satellites also we can put cameras and things on satellites. Do satellites work at night? Yes, they work at night. Work at night. Can satellites work in bad weather? Yes. Can satellites see over the horizon? Of course, they can see over the horizon. Can satellites show the distance? Yes. Are satellites good for early warning? Very good. So you see cameras, radar satellites, cameras don't work. You can have a 10,000 cameras and still radar will be better than cameras. Do you understand? So, so in in modern warfare, you use a combination of net of of a network of radars and satellite systems for um your early warning system for your aircraft detection system. Uh, of course, stealth is a different story. We'll we'll not discuss stealth over here. um stealth also depending on the type of radar and the power and all that you can detect aircraft in principle what air I mean how far the aircraft is and what and so on uh so that's the deal so essentially radar is like having superpowered eyes that can essentially see through walls in the darkness and hundreds of kilometers away and cameras are limited to what human eyes can see on a on a on a clear day huge difference so that's why in modern warfare we use a combination of radars and satellites for detecting aerial threats. So I think it's an excellent question. I'm glad you asked it and you gave me the opportunity to explain the difference between these things. Outstanding. Okay. Okay. Danush says, "What's happening with India West ties? On the one hand, reports say that a US India mini deal is near. On the other hand, the NATO chief is threatening India with secondary sanctions. Lindsey Graham wants a 500% tariff on India. Trump has given a 50-day warning to Putin to make a deal or he will put 100% tariffs on the nations the trade with Russia like India. Well, I think you've seen my geo strategy episode from yesterday, haven't you? Uh but he then he also says India is fully opening up to us and they designated TRF the terrorist group behind the pahalgam terror attack. Right? They've designated designated TRF as a terrorist group. So what's happening and my important question is the west really looking to really going to sabotage the India relationship for the sake of Ukraine. Wouldn't that still be against their interests even though they don't like India long term? This has nothing to do with Ukraine. The US India relationship doesn't exist in the context of Ukraine. Ukraine is is one of the factors. Sure. Uh one of the factors that that they would like to use to pressurize India with. So it's it's a point of leverage. It's a pressure point that they can you know deploy on demand Ukraine. You did not support us on Ukraine. You didn't you did not uh go ahead with you know you did not participate in western sanctions on Russia visa v the Ukra in the context of the Ukraine conflict and so on. That's what they can do and that's how they can use that as a negotiating tactic and pressure point and leverage point uh during negotiations. They can do that. uh when it comes to this India US trade deal, India categorically rejected US pressure of the of this you know what July 9 deadline. The Americans had unilaterally given a July 9 deadline by which India needs to agree to a deal with the US and India categorically rejected that we said that the deal is we are not ready uh to accept all your demands and we need to negotiate more so we're going to extend the deadline. Let's make it August one or whatever. So, we have not capitulated to the US demands and we have not gone ahead and signed some kind of deal with the US. The negotiations are still on. We are negotiating really hard, right? And the Americans are using all these pressure tactics on us. Uh secondary sanctions, NATO, the NATO chief is threatening India. NATO is North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Why don't you look into matters related to the Atlantic region? Why don't you keep mind your own business and stay out of India? But no, they won't do it, right? Because the NATO chief is is a well, he's an asset of the US. So the NATO chief is threatening India with secondary sanctions. Lindsey Graham, like you said, wants 500% tariffs on India because India is purchasing Russian oil. Trump is also, you know, threatening India with various tariffs, 100% tariffs, uh because of trade with Russia. U then they've gone ahead and designated TRF as a terrorist group. So obviously there's negotiations happening and we have made a set of demands conditions that need to be fulfilled and they seem to be you know accepting some conditions and giving giving us some of the things we want. So maybe that's why TRF has been designated as a terrorist group. It's okay. They can designate TRF as a terrorist group but they can create 50 other terrorist groups with with other names and use them against India through Pak via Pakistan. So that's no big deal for the US. They've done this played this game in the past. It's no big deal. So it's it's a small it's not some big huge victory for India that the US has you know bureaucratically put a rubber stamp on TRF terrorist group. They can create a 100 more terrorist groups tomorrow via Pakistan. They've done that in the past and uh Trump is saying India is fully opening up to us. Really are we? No we are negotiating. We are not opening up to you and we will not accept uh India is not going to accept US agricultural demands that we uh bring we allow the export of American agriculture and dairy dairy products to India. We will not accept that because there is poison. They can poison their people. It's fine but we will not accept that their GMO stuff and all those patents Monsanto patents and whatnot. No, that's not going to happen. And that's what they want because they want to vasalize India. These are East India company tactics that they're trying to use. Uh so so India West ties aren't great. Trump is trying to bully India to arm twist India into accepting everything like what he has done to Indonesia. Right? He has turned Indonesia into a total vasal. Utter Indonesia has had to go down on its knees and accept whatever the Americans said. That's what's happened to Indonesia. We are not going in the same direction. But the relationship isn't great and yeah. So, so that's the deal. Uh so the real question you are asking is is the west going to sabotage their relationship with India for the sake of Ukraine. It has nothing to do with Ukraine. They are doing this to every country and India is important because it's the fourth largest economy first of all and second of all it's important from the perspective of the US China rivalry. Um and that's why the US needs India on its side. If in case there's a contingency in the future, maybe a Chinese invasion of Taiwan or or some kind of conflict um involving China, North Korea, whatever, in that case they want India on their side. And India also feels that you know China is a threat. So it's good to have the US on our side. So that's the that's the approach that's the deal. And the US does need India on its side when it comes to the matter of China. But they would also like to extract as much out of India when it comes to this these trade and tariff this trade and tariff war. So they are trying to extract as much as they can gain as much as they can from India and make India concede as much as possible and India is playing a very tough game. It's negotiating really hard. Uh so it's going to take a while. Maybe by the end of this year, you may have some kind of trade deal, a full final trade deal perhaps. Perhaps. And maybe if we maybe by the time Trump's patience may run out and I don't know, he may throw some kind of tantrum uh which may well which may be bad for both sides perhaps. We'll have to see about that. But let me remind you once again, let me reiterate this has nothing to do with Ukraine. The US doesn't care about Ukraine. Ukraine is a disposable asset for the for the US. They're going to fight this war until the last Ukrainian is alive and then they will throw Ukraine into the trash bin and take extract all the minerals as much as they can and then maybe have Poland become the next Ukraine. So that's how you use Vasals, right? That's how you use them as disposable assets and they would like to turn India into that and we are not going to have that happen. So it's a tug of war right now essentially. Uh it's nothing to do with Ukraine like I said. Um and this will continue and uh yeah the relationship won't be great. It's not great anyway. It's never been great. The US India relationship. The US looks upon India as as a as a colonized nation which we are. I mean we are a colonized nation. We have never decolonized and uh they would like to maintain that. Then they would like to perpetuate there and they would like to strengthen that. So yeah, it's going to be this is going to be something we have to keep our eye on eye on and I think every episode of geost strategy there's going to be some new development in this matter. So we're going to keep an eye on that. Okay. Sunmoon0877 says are travel vloggers getting paid by other countries to bring down a nation. Yeah, sure that can happen. Look, travel vloggers are people, individuals who generally are on YouTube, YouTubers, and their content is travel content. Oh, I went to so and so country and this was my experience there. I ate this food and I stayed in this hotel and I saw these places and these were the kind of people I met. Some are nice, some are not. Whatever. That's a travel vlog. And if you make it interesting, people will watch, right? And there are many famous travel vloggers. There are some not so famous travel vloggers. Now, here's the deal. Let's say you are a reasonably popular travel vlogger and let's say you are Mr. X. Okay. And you are an Indian travel vlogger and your viewers are mostly Indians, right? So then if you are a nation like China for example and you want Indians to to have a good opinion of China, then what if you're the Chinese government, what you can do is you can approach this Mr. X, whoever it is, through whatever means, and propose a deal, then you know what, Mr. X, we're going to sponsor your trips to China. We're going to give you business class flight tickets. We're going to set you up in fivestar hotels, and we're going to facilitate your travel to whatever part of China uh we would like you to visit. So, we want you to make these many x number of trips to China in a year, and you will visit these places. We will give you the itinary. We'll give you a guide. We'll give make sure we'll arrange for your travel and accommodation. We'll even pay you a a salary x number of dollars per month per trip. So if you do one trip and you cover let's say five cities, we're going to pay you $10,000 or whatever the whatever the amount is, you know, depending on the person. In that way you can use these Indian travel vloggers to influence the mindset of Indians and make it more pro-China. That's one thing the Chinese can do. Okay. Another thing the Chinese can do is they can cultivate assets in India. Not just travel vloggers. For example, news readers, news anchors, news analysts. I'm not naming anybody, by the way. If you want me to name somebody, I can actually name someone. Would you like me to? So, I'm not sure if this person is paid by the Chinese or not. But, uh, it looks like this person is very fond of China. So, let's let's take a look at this person. Uh, that person's name is SL Cantan. So, let's let's Google this this person, shall we? Um, I'll give you an example. I am not saying this person is on the payroll of China. Maybe maybe may not be. I I don't have I'm not making a definitive statement. SL Canon. This is an Indian person. And if you see this person's Twitter, it's all China, China, China, China, China, China, China. Okay. Extremely uh bullish on China. Russia and China. Um, China and you know what? Who's the Chinese ambassador to India? First of all, one second. Uh, Chinese ambassador. Okay. Chinese ambassador to India. His name is Mr. Shu Fihong. Uh, where's his Twitter? Twitter over here. Now, let's take a look at Mr. Fihong, the Chinese ambassador of India. His Twitter Twitter timeline. Let's take a look. Let's go to uh June. Right now it's all Tibet propaganda because of what's happened recently. Tibet, Tibet, Tibet. But let's go to the Manser over Yatra those days. Ah, there we have it. Indian geopolitical analyst SL Cantan. China has done a good job of preserving Tibetan culture. So the Chinese ambassador is promoting this particular individual. So now let's go to SL Kantan. Do we have his Twitter thing over here? Oh, here it is. Slantan. So this gentleman is an Indian citizen very very pro-China. I am not claiming that he is because I don't have information. I'm not claiming that he is paid by the Chinese government but he's extremely pro-china. Let's let's search for something. Okay. Axai Chin. Axai Chin. What does Mr. Kantan have to say about Axai Chin? Let's see. India, China border, etc. LA um what else has he said about Axai? Here we have it. See what he says here. Axai Chin never belonged to India or the British. That's what Mr. SL Kantan has to say. So he is taking China's side on this. Look here. India will never get Axai Chin. What a delusional idea. Do you want to have peaceful relations with China or are we too blinded by hatred and fanatical hubris? So as you can see this gentleman Mr. SL Kantan. Uh he is extremely pro-China which raises a lot of questions from my perspective about what is he up to. Is he simply somebody who is in great love with China? Has he been honey trapped somehow by the Chinese or is he potentially hypothetically being paid by the Chinese? Hypothetically I am not claiming he is but is he? I think the government of India needs to look into people like these these people they develop big followings because of the push that's given to them by the Chinese official accounts like the government of China ambassador of China and there are other Chinese assets there are this this French there are French people who spend the whole day just like Mr. Russell Canton praising China on Twitter and they gain big followings. These people mysteriously get get big gain big followings in Twitter and then they all work together and amplify each other's content you know that's how it works. So there are French people who do that there are there's this Indian gentleman who does that Mr. SL Kantan and so on. Uh so I think the government of India needs to just look to these these accounts. I mean how does an Indian person go out on Twitter and say that Axai will will never belong to India. It never belong to India. India will never get a chin. Really? Have you seen the map of India official map of India? Have you read history? But he clearly takes the Chinese side all the time. Um so the question we have to ask ourselves is that are people like Mr. SL Canton being paid by China for their services or are they simply u in love with China or have they hypothetically been honey trapped or are they hypothetically being blackmailed for some reason because they may have done something not very wise in the past I don't know so there are many examples like these and it's very very common for people to be used as assets by foreign nations by enemy nations in this manner it's very easy you will not find any Chinese person who lives in China doing the same thing for India, you know, telling the Chinese citizens that, you know, India is a great nation. We we should not fight with India and we need to return Axajin to India or whatever. You will never see a Chinese person doing that. But in India, you have these people who work for China either u willingly or or hypothetically being paid. I don't know about that but whatever you know. So we have plenty of possible enemies within. So it's not just travel vloggers, it is news readers, news journalists, journalists. Recently the Chinese government had reopened this manser over Kaashra, right? Very very very kindly and a whole bunch of Indian journalists were invited to Tibet and some of them went and praised Tibet you know the Chinese government's uh um whatever it is doing in Tibet and so on. Some of them did that some of them them did not. Some of them could just be useful idiots. I'm not saying all of them are useful idiots or idiots at all but some of them could have been useful for idiots but some of them may possibly be working for China possibly potentially. So yeah we have these problems in India and I think it's time that the government takes a closer look at these things because this is a matter of national security and the China is our number one threat. Right. Right. Okay. Senaphile says, "I'm a final year I'm a CS final year student. Uh currently seeing all these layoffs by Microsoft and these big companies due to AI. What should I plan for the future? Now that I'm uh seeing all these IT jobs being wiped out by AI in the near future, right? So you are a CS computer science final year student and you're obviously concerned about what's happening because of AI. AI could replace everything. There are big layoffs by Microsoft and various other companies because of AI replacement because of a lot of uh a lot of job uh descriptions being replaced by AI tools, AI agentic tools and whatnot. So what should somebody in caphiles situation and position do to plan for the future because yeah it jobs could get wiped out by AI. So look, AI is here to stay as far as we know and a significant substantial portion of of routine and repetitive work, you know, process oriented routine work, repetitive work in IT, tasks in IT of this nature are at high risk of being automated by AI. Okay. And it it's especially applies to uh you know roles like data entry and tech support and uh you know low-level programming work, low-level quality assurance work, QA that sort of thing. uh and I've seen a report by I don't know Goldman Sachs or whatever McKenzie I think whoever it was and they they predicted that by 2030 about 30% of of uh white collar jobs including IT could be heavily automated by AI. So I think that's a very conservative estimate they're giving 30% by 2030 of IT jobs. Uh so that's that's there is there going to be total collapse of IT employment? I don't think IT employment will see a total collapse but a lot of uh repetitive jobs will be automated and many IT roles will be augmented possibly by AI not eliminated. So the skill requirements will change the focus will will move towards higher level work, creative work, strategic work and so on. Uh so what you need to do you know if you if you are in AI if you are in IT you need to be able to continuously learn you need to be able to continuously upskill and you have to you need to be able to hopefully work in in roles that need human qualities that need leadership qualities strategic depth uh cross-disciplinary insight maybe hands-on requirements ments hand hands-on work that sort of thing. Uh for example, cyber security strategy, ethical hacking, all of this needs uh adaptation, right? It needs creativity, it needs human judgment. Probably AI can't take that. Uh that's one example. If you are a product manager, if you are a relationship manager, if you're a project manager, you need to do complex integration, you need to do strategic development. uh you need to collaborate with with various teams, you need to provide leadership. Uh then you have prompt engineering which is a very AI AIcentric task. So I think that the thing is that you know there is no job that is AI proof but the safest careers are those that involve creativity, they involve leadership and they involve adapt adaptability. They need human judgment and so much more. uh and obviously the human skills like interpersonal skills if you can blend them with technical skills and so on uh that is what uh is going to be you know AI proof hopefully in in the in the long run in the future. So if you are a final year CS computer science student in India, I can assure you that your degree will not give you the skills needed to survive long term when AI takes over and AI is taking over gradually. So you need to do this of your own initiative. You need to acquire uh these abilities, this this aptitude, these set of skills on your own. Otherwise you you may not you know survive the AI the the AI takeover of IT. I think a lot of the Indian IT companies and firms they are not very adaptable. They are not keeping up with the times. They are stuck in old ways of thinking because Indian students in the products of Indian education system are are they can't think differently. Uh they can't innovate in so much more. So I think the Indian IT industry is at great risk. Uh so yeah that's how that's what you have to do you know able to be to be able to uh withstand the the coming of AI the a the AI takeover and and automation of so many tasks that's what you need to do okay NCERTT what's your take on changes in NCERT of the Mgal period many left historians are saying that Hindu kings too plundered and looted plundered and looted the the country the territory and temples giving examples of some king of Kashmir and talking ill about Maharaj to hell with the left historians that's I mean I think it's time to say that we should not take them seriously anymore they'll keep on repeating these lies now every time they repeat a lie and it gets published somewhere do we have to come on come back and respond to their lies no ignore them completely stop discussing them when you stop talking about somebody they get margin generalized, right? We need to simply exclude them from the conversation. These left historians, all of us. Enough of this nonsense. Of course, there was warfare in ancient India, right? Which country has not had warfare? If you have two neighboring kingdoms, obviously, there'll be rivalries. So, what's wrong with that? There's going to be conquest. Who was Samudra Gupta? He was a conqueror. wasn't he? He conquered the whole of India by defeating kings. He killed some kings. He he captured their territories. Um so does it mean that we are evil civilization? Have you seen other countries in their histories? What they did to civilians? We never did. We never mistreated civilians. My point is I don't want to discuss this again. My point is let's talk about NCERTT. So I'm hearing that NCERT textbooks have been revamped, revised and now they uh more accurately uh reflect the true history of India. That's what I hear. I saw some examples on on Twitter yesterday and today and it was great. So I think finally we have done something good. The government of India has finally got its act together. took them 11 plus years but it looks like the NCERT textbooks are good now and they are they they are now respectful towards the history of India the culture of India and they are no longer showing distorted nonsense I think it's not just about the Mughal period I think it's overall that they have been you know um improved significantly vastly I haven't seen the Mughal part I don't care about the Mughal period and I I haven't seen any examples of what's written written in the NC textbooks about the Mughal period but whatever I saw was was pretty good. So I think it's a very welcome development. I have been saying for I don't know how many years that India needs to do something about this. So I think we are finally taking steps in that direction and I'm very pleased to hear that. So that's all I can say about it right now. I I don't have any textbooks in my hands. I don't think I'm going to take the time to buy textbooks and study them and see what has been changed and maybe get examples of older textbooks and old version new version. I don't know how to do that do that but I I think that uh we have taken some very welcome steps steps uh when it comes to u revamping the NCERT textbook so I think that's great very good okay what next do we have Sharma 108x says what are the origins of the Kushans Google says that the Kusan empire emerged from the UAG a nomadic group from central Asia who conquered Bactria the 2nd century BC where the central Asian or Chinese and how did they conquer much of northern India? Okay. So, first of all, my dear friends, Google is not an answer engine. It's a search engine. When you search something on for something on Google, it gives you a whole list of search results which are websites and it is those websites that will give you various answers. Of course, Google now seems to have an AI feature which summarizes everything. So, it may be giving you a certain answer. Uh, now here's the deal. You you this is what you've said said over here that the Koshans according to Google emerged from the UAG a nomadic group from central Asia who conquered Bactrea. So we have two terms here UAG and Bactria. Bactria these are all foreign terms they use okay foreign terms they will use foreign terms so that you get all confused. Bactria is Gandhar. Present day Afghanistan. Historical Gandhar. That's Bactria. Okay. So these gentlemen, they conquered Gandhar, northwest India in the 2nd century BC. They did not conquer on some day on the 2nd century BC. The whole of Gandhar. They started making inroads slowly into Gandhar in the around the 2nd century BC. Now the question is about the origins of the Kushans the UAG. Who are these UAG? It's a Chinese name. Why don't they use the Indian name instead of the Chinese name? Why? Why does this western search engine use a Chinese name instead of the actual Indian name? What was the Indian name of this group? It was the Tushara people. The Tushara people. Let's let's Google this. Who are the Tushara people? Yeah. What will what will our friend Google have to say about this? Who were the Tushara people? Taras also known as Tukharas or Tokarians were an Indo-Uropean tribe or group of tribes that settle in Central Asia, Turkmanistan, Afghanistan. They are mentioned in ancient Index like the Mahabharat, the Amletcha, barbarians etc. Relationship to Tokarians. The term tokarian is also used al often used interchangeably with tokara tokarian languages tarim basin and so on and the Chinese they called them the da ui so that's the tushara people the so-called tokarian tokarian people the tushara kingdom and so on so there's the Wikipedia page obviously it's not entirely reliable o ever uh What does it say over here? The so-cal tokarians. Now for the Tokarians, they're going to have a different Wikipedia page which is separate from the Tushara people. The Tokarians uh so I will not go into this but let's quickly Google Tokarians shall we? Tokarian people they lived in the Tarim River basin. Okay. Now to understand what that is we have to go to the map. So let me quickly show you the map. Where's the tarim river basin is? Okay, here's the map. Tarim the tarim river basin is this region. Okay, present day so-called shinjang. If we Google tarim tarim river basin, it's this region over here. The tarim river is an ancient pretty big river that flows over here. And it is in the tarim river basin that the uh or the tushara people lived. It is right now if you go there it's it's the Takla Makan desert but in the past it was it was pretty green. So that's where these people lived the Tushara people. Now let me show you something else. The Tarim Basin mummies. Uh one second give me a second. Give me a second. For that we have to go back to Google and we were looking at at tokarians. Now we will look at the tarim river basin. Tarim mummies. Tarim mummies. You know because the region is so dry the people who are buried there uh their bodies are very well preserved and if you look at these people they look very western okay that their their facial features etc. As you can see, this this ancient lady, she has a light color or maybe red colored hair, you know, ginger hair and uh this is another person. Um so, you know, they have found lots of remains of these people. They were typically pretty tall people, fair skinned, blonde or redhaired people. Uh they they used to have these tattoos. This is another person, another lady. 5,000 years old perhaps. This is another lady here. These are reconstructions uh possibly European looking. But if you uh this is another gentleman who passed away a long time ago. So these are the Tarim River basin mummies. If you look at their culture, if you look at their culture, despite them looking European, they are very Indian. And let me show you some something else which will be surprising. Okay. Okay, the tokarian language tokarian script for example let's go to omniglot let's see the tokaran script so this is about um how old is the tokaran script first of all what does our friend Wikipedia have to say 8th century etc and so on so let's go back to the to the omglot tokquarian script what does this look like The token alphabet is like this. Uh these are the vowels. And how do you write the concerns? Kaka gaasha. I think it sounds shockingly Indian, doesn't it? Um so that's the tarim script. It goes kaka gaga just like any other Indian script. And if you look at the gods they worshiped, those were Indian gods. And if you look at the genetics of the Tarim, Tarim people, they had blonde hair and red hair and whatnot and whitish skin. Genetics are all R1 A1A, very Indian, culturally Indian, genetically Indian, religious for what religion was essentially a form of Hinduism. Um so yeah that that's that's that is the origin of the Kushana people. Very interesting right? Really interesting. So then the question is where the centralization of Chinese definitely not Chinese. You could call them possibly the eastern most skitians. Uh so they most likely were descendants of Indians who were who traveled out of India thousands of years ago. We've had many migrations out of out of India. The first recorded example of a migration out of India is the aftermath of the battle of the 10 kings in which all the defeated clans were expelled out of India by king Diwadas the victor. Uh yeah. So, so the the origin was most likely Indian but they spent thousands of years out of out of India which is why they they accumulated they they absorbed various foreign genetics also I'm pretty sure right now why did these gentlemen the the Kushans the the why did they reinvade India why is that it is because of the emergence of the Huns the Hunas so once again let's go to the map and the huns about about 2,500 years ago they emerged out of the present region of Mongolia. Okay. Uh and they started expanding westwards and southwards and the Kusans or who lived in this region the Tushara people who lived in the Tarim region they were forced to flee from the Huns because the Hoons were more powerful. So the Kushans fled westwards and southwards and westwards and southwards you had the skithians who were already living here. So the skithians were forced to flee from the Kushans because the Kushians were more powerful. So the Huns expanded. They were more powerful than than the Kushans. So the Kushans fled southwest. The Kushans were more powerful than the Skithians who were in the southwest. So they had to flee into India. So that's how the Skian invasion of India happened. And a couple of centuries later the Kusans also entered India and conquered India. And uh neither the Kushans nor the Skithians were culturally different from Indians which is why they assimilated very harmoniously into Indian society. Right? The Skitians they established various great kingdoms in India. the northern satrups, the the western satrups, the great Mahakhatrapas who ruled out of Sabrashtra and Gujarat and controlled uh our trade with the Romans. Yeah. And uh the the Satraps were shvites, servants and uh and devotees of of Lord Shiva. And the Koshans they were more in the north. Kaneshka had this great empire. So yeah, that's the story and that's the origins of the Koshans. Okay. Um, next question is about Okay. It's by Sunm Moon0877. Can we sue all these higher higher hand brands for copying our culture, clothing, accessories, etc. without giving us credit for it? On top of that, it's 200% more expensive. So there was this controversy recently about Prada or whoever who had who have copied the Indian kulapuri chapel and now these western models are wearing those kulapuri chapel on their feet and it's it's priced at god knows what super expensive price in India if you buy a kapuri chapel it may cost you what 200 bucks 200 rupees or 500 rupees or whatever reasonably cheap good quality hopefully uh but the prada thing will be obviously 10 times maybe 100 times more expensive so it's an example of cultural theft Of course, it's an example of cultural theft and there are lots of different forms of cultural theft. The west has appropriated yoga and we have done nothing about it. That's cultural theft. Of course, uh just just uh establishing a world yoga day is not enough to save India from cultural theft. You have to establish establish a world yoga standards institute. But we have never bothered to do that. So today you have all kinds of variations of yoga like dog yoga and hot yoga and goat yoga and beer yoga and drunk yoga and god knows what nonsense they have ruined yoga the west um you don't have that with kung fu you don't have any non-Chinese variations of kung fu today but you have all kinds of non-Indian variations of yoga today so that has been stolen when it comes to u things like pranayam the west calls it either box breeding or cardiac coherence breathing So they've digested the the the technique and now they've given it given it fake western names. So new practitioners will never even know that it's actually something that came from India. So the the west has a history of doing this and they will keep on doing that. So how do we stop this from happening? By by owning the fact that we are the originators. Our civilization is the originator of all these uh of things like yoga and pranayam and whatnot. To do that you have to establish our versions of the Shaolin temple. The Shaolin temple is the global authority of what kung fu is and what kung fu cannot be. Similarly we need to have world yoga standards institute in India which will decide and determine what constitutes yoga and what does not constitute yoga and pranayam and so on. That's one example. We need to also own ayurvea because you know ashwagandha and whatn not is now being digested by the west. It's being stolen. And when it comes to our clothing and all that, that also will be copied and appropriated by the west, it's it's bound to happen. Uh there's not much we can do about clothing um and and styles of footwear and all that. You can't really sue anybody for drawing inspiration loosely or not so loosely from from our traditions. I don't think there's much we can do about that, right? I mean we have even if you look at India, if you look at Bollywood, how much have has Bollywood stolen from the west? How many songs have Bollywood uh lyricists stolen from western songs? It goes both ways. The the amount of theft is staggering. Many of many Indians don't even know how many of these songs originated in the west and they were stolen by Indians. Kishor Kumar stole that song. What's it what's it called? Om Shanti Om from a singer and songwriter for the West Indies. A guy who never got credit for that and so many other examples. There's an Elvis Presley song Margarita which was which became some some Hindi song from a 1960s or 70s movie. uh Saira Banu was the actress in the movie if I remember Juka Aman and so many many more more recent examples. So yeah that's that's you know there's some things you can do about this and some things we simply can't do. So when it comes to the theft of yoga and pranayam I'm sure we can do a lot about that if the government decides to wake up. When it comes to stealing Kapuri chapels and various kinds of Indian dresses and all that, I don't think there's a lot we can do about it. Yeah. Okay. Rahul Durak says in the movie Interstellar, they have shown a device that can make a human hibernate for years on the on on trot on the trot. What is it based on? That's a great movie. Interstellar, one of the few movies that I liked this century, 21st century, and probably one of the best science fiction movies I've seen. So in interstellar, the the premise is that what's the premise? Yeah, you travel from the earth all the way to some other stellar system and then yeah, so there's a long journey and because the journey is so long, it may take I don't know how many years. You you do sleep. It's called hypersleep or cryosleep or something. So uh I think the the it's based on hibernation. So on earth we have many animals especially those that live in very cold regions of the earth that hibernate. For example, if you're a bear in in northern Asia or maybe North America or whatever, if you're a bear, let's say you're a grizzly bear in North America and uh it gets really cold in the winter. So what grizzly bears will do is that they will eat salmon, those those big fish with with orange flesh. They'll eat salmon. They'll gorge themselves on salmon and become really really heavy, hefty, fat. And then when the winter when the winter comes, these bears will just go into their their den and sleep it off. They'll sleep for like five, six months. And when the and and it's continuous sleep. There's no waking up for all those months. And then once once the winter is over, the bear will wake up and that fat bear that went in is all loose and thin and it's burned off all the fat it accumulated. So that is a natural process that we have on the planet. It's called hibernation. Many species undergo hibernation to survive the winter and it's something that can theoretically be used to have humans sleep with a lower metabolic rate for possibly long periods of time. So that's one concept hibernation which already exists. It's a biological phenomenon. The other phen the other concept is that you know if you lower the temperature of the body then you can really slow down the met metabolism of the body and the aging of the body. For example when you have organ transplants. Let's say somebody is receiving a heart from somebody who just who's a organ donor and who died. So you have to take the heart out of the person who died immediately and transport it as fast as possible to the recipient who will take the heart because their heart has failed for whatever reason. So to do that you have to bring the heart the temperature of this of this donor heart as close to zero as possible without freezing it. So maybe around 4 5° centigrade. If you freeze it, it it's going to destroy the organ because ice crystals will form which are needle like they'll poke holes into the cells. So you want to bring the temperature to maybe four, five degrees. I'm not sure what the exact temperature is, but as low as possible without freezing it, without the formation of of uh of water crystals, ice crystals. So if you do that, then the metabolism slows down and the organ doesn't undergo cell death. Similarly, if somebody uh if somebody is is receiving a heart, you need to bring their body's temperature down as as low as possible so that uh you know there are no complications. And when people u for example, if somebody drowns in in freezing water, they could be under water for 20 30 minutes and they can still be revived because at that low temperature the body doesn't die that fast. So these are the various concepts that you have and you can package those into this science fiction concept called hypers sleep or cryosleep. So it's not something that actually exists, you know, uh it's uh but potentially in the future you could perhaps make something like that happen because if you want to travel several light years, a process that maybe at 95% of the speed of light will take maybe I don't know let's say you want a person to survive a 100red-year voyage in space, whatever distance it is. Then obviously you want the person to be as unchanged as possible when they reach the destination. So for that you will need some form of hibernation combined with low temperatures so that the body doesn't age and the person person doesn't really age and and so on. So that's a science fiction concept that's hypersleep or cryosleep and that's the and and the device they showed was some kind of pod in which the person will will be you know made to sleep in and once they go to sleep the person will be cooled down or and they will undergo cryosleep. So that's the device they have shown and it's based on these concepts. Okay. What else do we have? We have a few more questions. Let's talk some physics for a change. It's been a while. So YJA likes to ask very interesting physics questions. If we annihilate the assumption that the universe is roughly homogeneous in very large scales, can we eliminate the need for dark energy and Hubble tension on it all at once? Also can you tell us your views on whether quintessence whether or not quintessence as dark energy is probable? Okay so uh there is this fundamental assumption in cosmology that the universe is homogeneous and isotropic on the largest scales. This is uh a fundamental assumption in cosmology. Uh so imagine that the universe is a gigantic chocolate chip cookie. Let's let's Google a chocolate chip cookie so that you get the get what I'm trying to say. Okay. Chocolate chip chip cookie. So what does a chocolate chip cookie look like? It looks like this, right? It's got these chocolate chips all over it. Right? These are chocolate chip cookies. So imagine that the universe we live in is a huge chocolate chip cookie. And it's a huge one. Okay, not small one, but huge one. And imagine you're looking at this chocolate chip cookie from very far away. So when you are close to the surface of this chocolate chip cookie, you can see all the individual chocolate chips and you can see the the dough, right? But when you go far enough, when you go significantly far away, you will no longer be able to see those little chocolate chips and it will look very uniform and the chocolate chips will essentially merge into a brown brown thing. So from far away, you can't discern the individual chocolate chips, but but you can see the brown color. So from a from a significant distance if you are far enough you will see roughly the same amount of chocolate chips everywhere and that's the assumption that we make okay uh that on large enough scales the universe is roughly the same everywhere. Now we have two big mysteries that are being mentioned by Yajjnulka. One is dark energy and the other is the Hubble tension. So what is dark energy? Now if we look if we look at the universe look at galaxies that are far away and so on we notice that the universe is expanding and the universe is expanding faster and faster and the further an object away is away from us the f faster it is going away from us and we can measure the the the speeds and so on using red shift and other things you know uh so it's like a balloon that's being blown up with increasing speed so we can see that something is causing the expansion of the uni this universe this accelerated expansion of the universe and that's what we call dark energy we have no idea what it is no idea we call it dark energy that's one thing then there's something called Hubble tension so when we measure how fast the universe is expanding using different methods we get different answers so imagine I stand up against my background and I have two measuring scales so I I take one measuring scale and I measure my height it says 62 two and I use the other scale it says 64 what should be just one one answer right but it's but but I have two scales that are given giving me two different answers slightly different one is saying 62 and is saying 64 something is wrong so that's that's the that's the Hubble tension okay so some cosmologists some physicists have wondered what if this fundamental assumption is wrong what if the universe isn't really uniform and isotropic on large distance scales. So let's say we are not living on a uniform chocolate chip but we are living in a spot where there are very few chocolate chips. This is huge void that we are living in. Okay, empty region. If you're living in this pretty empty region which is very less dense, the density is very less then maybe the light that's traveling to us from distant galaxies, it may behave differently than we may expect if the universe is homogeneous and isotropic. So if we are living in this very special low density region then the apparent deceleration that we see might just be or whatever speed of light we see or whatever measurements we are able to make they may be incorrect or they may be illusions because of the unusual location that we are in and maybe the measurement disagreements that are happening are because that are because we are not accounting for our special position. in the universe. So, special location in the universe, right? Uh so that that's the that's the question that uh some physicists have asked. Uh but the fact is that there is no evidence that we are that the planet earth and the solar system and the Milky Way galaxy are located in some very incredibly special perfectly positioned region in the universe. And we have plenty of evidence from other observations like the cosmic microwave background edition etc. which do indicate very strongly that the universe is indeed uniform and isotropic on large scales. So it's it's a pretty good question to ask and uh and if you annihilate this assumption that the universe is roughly how all that then it could indicate that but you need other evidence to back it up that we are indeed loc located located in some uh special region of space otherwise it doesn't really make sense. So it's an interesting idea that that some physicists are exploring but we need way more evidence to actually take this more seriously. Most of the evidence that we have, observational evidence, it points to the universe being genuinely more or less roughly uh uniform uh homogeneous and isotropic in all directions, right? At the largest scales. Uh so we actually do need to figure out what dark energy actually is and we do need to solve the big question of the Hubble tension through some other means. It's like detective work actually. And maybe we need to look into this from different perspectives. may be perspectives that people may not have thought about. For example, there is this theory by Dr. Subashk who has appeared on my podcast a few times. Uh that the universe may not be threedimensional or fourdimensional. It may be e-dimensional where E is the special number 2.8 whatever, right? That's an interesting. It's a fractal dimensional universe. Well, that's interesting, isn't it? So, we need to look at it uh you know look at things from outside the box or maybe out of the box approaches or whatever. What whatever approaches we've been taking for the longest time, they aren't really working in physics. Uh now there's another question about quintessence, right? Uh so we discussed what is uh dark energy? It's something that is causing this our universe to expand faster and faster. This uh accelerating expansion of this universe. So there is something that is causing it. Obviously, we don't know what it is, but we call it dark energy. So that's where quintessence comes in. So quintessence is possible is possibly this this some kind of special invisible energy that fills up all of space just like air fills up a room. But this energy is everywhere in in our universe which means that it is right here in this room with me. Quintess essence comes from um Greek quint essence the fifth essence. The Greeks believed that everything was made up of what? Earth, air, water, fire and and and what ether or some fifth fifth essence, fifth thing. So that's quintessence. Uh so quintessence is supposed to be something that uh that pushes things apart. It doesn't pull things together. It pushes things apart. It's like an anti-gravity kind of force. That's what it believed. It's like an invisible force that is constantly stretching space apart. But there is something special about quintessence. Its value changes over time. Its strength changes over time. So in the early universe, earlier universe, you had more dark energy than dark matter. But today you have more way more dark energy than dark matter. So maybe it's because the the strength of quintessence has changed over time. It's like a switch whose settings you can change, you know, a fan switch or something, that sort of thing. So that's what quintessence is. I think it's an interesting theory. uh but uh we need more research to it's still a hypothesis. We have no observational evidence of it. So that is what quintessence is. I think it is an interesting theory and we should certainly um examine it. I have taken it pretty seriously in the past. So yeah, quintessence is is a an interesting theory that could potentially uh throw some light on what dark energy is. Okay, Yajjala again says, "Does the K formula give us hints about a new understanding underlying theory of physics?" Uh, the K formula, it's it's something that uh was discovered in the 1980s by a Japanese physicist whose surname is Koh. So, let's let's look up what the formula looks like. It's it's a relationship between various kinds of lepttons. Leptons are very nice particles. One of the the lightest lepton is the electron. So, k formula. This is particle physics which is interesting which is something I've not looked into for a very long time but here we have it. Uh this is the coe formula. I'm not sure what Carl Bran Bran is. Uh this is what the formula looks like. M mu and m towel. Uh generally it's inverted. It's the generally you know the the the denominator is on is the numerator actually usually. So what's the deal in the particle world? We have these players particles called lepttons. They are the lightweight members of the particle family. So just take a look at the formula. This is what it looks like. Now let's take that off the screen. Right? So uh the lepttons are you could call them the lightweight members of the particle family. You have the electron, you have the muon, and you have the tow. These three particles, the electron is is super light and we all know the electron because you know electricity they orbit nuclei and all that, right? The muon is a heavier cousin of the electron. It's about 200 times more massive than the electron. And then there's a tow particle which is about 3 and a half thousand times heavier than the electron. These three these are three leptons. So this Japanese physicist ku he discovered this relationship that we just saw. Let's put it back on the screen. uh between between the masses of the leptons. So me is the mass of the electron. Actually, this is the correct coid formula. That's the one that I'm familiar with. I'm not familiar with this one. This is this is an inverted version of it, but this is the one. So m is the mass of the electron. M mu is the mass of the muon and m to is the mass of the toao particle. In the denominator we have the three square roots added up and then the sum is squared and and this fraction its value is very close to 2x3. So it's it's pretty weird actually. I mean it's a pretty strange and unusual uh pattern that Mr. Ko that Dr. Ky discovered. So imagine that you have you you have a school you have a classroom in which you have like let's say 50 students and you take three kids at random and you measure the heights of those three kids and then you and then you find that if you combine them in a very specific mathematical way you always get the three same number. Is that a coincidence or is that more than a coincidence? And that's exactly the question as to what is this why why are the the the ratios of the fraction the these numbers why why is why do they have this specific relationship and does it uh actually hint at something deeper is the question right is there some kind of hidden symmetry in nature that we haven't discovered yet and is the ki formula hinting towards this this uh symmetry that's one question maybe is there some kind of fundamental theory underlying theory that explains why the particles have the masses that they do because we don't know why particles have the masses that they have. Why does the top quark have so and so mass? Why does the strange quark have so and so mass? Why does the electron have this mass? And why does the proton have a slightly different mass from the neutron and so why what is what is behind these constants that we have in physics? Then maybe the ki formula is is showing us some kind of direction. Is there some extra dimensions that the koid formula is hinting towards? So we don't have the answers right now but it's it's an unsolved puzzle that that this formula is but it it uh is pretty interesting and maybe it's giving us hints towards a new underlying theory of physics maybe new symmetries maybe a new underlying theory maybe extra dimensions we don't quite know right now but it's something that's pretty interesting and worth investigating. Yeah. Okay, Miranka Seeker Biswas says some as someone who's working on a project in muan's catin tomography I've observed that many physics PhD programs today a shifting focus from core theoretical and experimental physics towards programming machine learning and simulation tools like comsaw how should we view this trend as a ne as a necessary evolution of this discipline discipline or as a departure from the foundational rigor of physics research it's very much a departure from the foundational rigor of physics research it's it's a dilution in the way physics is done and that's something you see all over the place. Um if you are in theoretical physics if you then you should be taught theoretical physics from first principles properly. Um you know programming and whatnot it's it's a good it's a good set of skills to have. There's no harm in learning programming if you're a theoretical physicist or or any kind of physicist. it can help but um it's shifting the focus away from the real job of a physicist. um even if you're an experimentalist, yeah, sure, programming can help you, but uh it's it's something that's an addendum to what you're supposed to learn. But today, it's you see this all over the place, you know, and it's not just today. Even 25 years ago, if you did a for example, a master's degree in in physics, half of the syllabus sometimes in some universities would be electronics. So it's always been that way. It's it's especially in India. But if you I'm sure if you go to a high quality top quality worldass physics department, you won't you won't see such things. They will offer you all these additional uh credits for things like you know programming and machine learning and whatnot but it's not the core uh syllabus. It's not the core thing that you're learning. So I think it's it's it's diluting what you're supposed to learn and it's it's problematic. It's not really a necessary evolution of the discipline. These are tools and skills that can help you solve problems, but that's something you learn once you have mastered the the core subject matter, right? It's it's definitely a departure from the foundational rigor of physics research. and and if you spend too much time doing all of that, when are you going to do the actual physics? So, I think it's it's problematic and I I I do not support this. I do not approve of this. Okay. Blind Julka says, "Does a person born blind see the color black or does that person see nothing, not even black? Can colors be really explained completely to such a person?" Um it's like asking you know look a person who is born blind doesn't even know what vision is. They don't know what colors are. They don't even know what sight is, what that experience is, what that perception is. It's like um you know for example if you have a sheet of paper it's essentially two-dimensional and if that's the only experience you have you have you will never know what three dimensions are and once you three once you see three dimensions it changes your world view completely. Now we see the world in three dimensions. Can we imagine what four what a fourdimensional universe would look like? We can't imagine it. We can draw representations of that on paper, but we can't sense it, feel it, imagine it, perceive it. We can intellectualize it by drawing something that looks like four dimensions on a piece of paper, but we can't really experience it. Similarly, a person who is born blind can't really experience what sight is, what colors are, what light is. They will not know what is black or red or whatever. So I'm not sure they see anything or perceive anything but if if you can give them the the gift of sight then they will the world will be changed like never before. Um so yeah that's probably how it is. Uh Ritik Paw says, "As you've been studying geopolitics and history for many years, can you please tell us in your opinion what are the three which are the three most which are the top three most powerful countries or empires in the past 10,000 years that were ab absolutely dominant or ruled the world for the longest time? No empire has ruled the world." Okay? No empire in the past. You did not have the technological prowess or the or the tools or the means to rule any large area. So for the longest time you had kingdoms and empire that were isolated and and localized and they never really came into contact with each other. Past 10,000 years we're going back to the birth of agriculture essentially. So uh but if you want to ask me about the three largest empires I would say in third place would come the Mongol Empire which was founded by Shri Chingis Khan. It went to the greatest extent its greatest geographical extent under his sons and grandsons. the Mongol Empire. Uh if you want if why don't we take a look at u uh what its extent would have been like. Mongol Empire uh yeah the largest extent geographically. So here's what it looked like. Okay, this was the largest geographical extent of the Mongol Empire. Um about 1368 AD. That's the Mongol Empire and as you can see they left India out because they didn't want to invade. Uh so that's the Mongol Empire. In my opinion it's the not in my opinion it is known to be the third largest empire in history. The second largest empire in history was the British Empire. The British Empire and and this is actually underplaying it. They they actually uh controlled probably more than this. But yeah sure this is the British Empire at its greatest extent more or less and the sun never set on the British Empire. Now that's the second largest empire which is the largest empire of all. It's the US empire the American empire but it's not regarded as an empire today because it's uh yeah so the US empire is the greatest empire largest empire. It has a power position capabilities all across the world. It can intervene militarily at essentially 60 to 60 minutes notice anywhere on the surface of the planet. And it is you know there are two kinds of empires uh two two two methodologies of of of maintaining an empire. You either do it through military occupation or do otherwise you do it through hedgemony. To maintain an empire through military occupation you need to put your military on the ground boots on the ground which is extremely expensive. A better way is to have a hegemonic empire in which you don't actually put boots to the ground, but you co-opt various local countries, turn them into vasals, and you have them do whatever you want. Like the US and Indonesia, which we discussed earlier. The US will levy 19% tariffs on Indonesia, but Indonesia can't apply tariffs on on American imports, but that's what you do if you're an empire. So that's how the US essentially controls the whole world to a very large extent. It doesn't control Russia, it doesn't control China, doesn't control India very much very much. But overall it controls a greater portion of the world than the British Empire did. So the American Empire which is the current hegemonic empire superpower that's the greatest largest empire of all time. Number two is the British Empire. Number three was the Mongol Empire and then there must be many more. I can name many more if you like but top three these are the top three. Okay. Um Sunmoon says should school start start teaching civic sense yeah civic sense in Indians you know thing. Um is it something you teach in school? Sure you can teach in school but how do you teach it? That's the question. In India in in school they will give you a textbook and they'll say repeat after me. You must have civic sense and then you have to write a 500word essay on civic sense and they will give you 20 marks for it. That's how they teach you things. Everything is theoretical. You will learn nothing through that actually. So you can write an essay every day about civic sense. You will learn nothing through it. The only way to actually learn civic sense is to practice it. So every day before you know the Japanese, they teach civic sense to their kids by from the time they're about 3 four years old. the kids they they clean up the classroom they pick up all the all the all the trash and put it into dust bins they actually practice it every day and that's how we learn it and also you have enforcement so I think that's how schools can teach civic sense schools are supposed to teach you everything practically but Indian schools don't do that and Indians don't even realize that everything has to be taught practically not theoretically if you make students memorize all kinds of stuff it will have no effect on their life they will learn no skill. They will simply memorize and retain information for some time until the exam is done. Then they will forget everything. That's not how you teach anything at all. The only way to teach something is by doing by making students do things. So yeah, schools should do it but schools in India don't do that. So uh one more question. Suresh says if given the chance to move to Mars, would you move? I I don't mind traveling to Mars. But moving to Mars, I mean permanently, no thank you. I'm a guy of Earth. Earth is my home. I would never move to Mars permanently. There are many people who say that, you know, if if I'm given the chance, I don't mind moving to Mars permanently and dying there. Well, I don't want that. I would jump at the opportunity to travel to Mars, visit the place and return, but moving there, no thank you. I am not moving there permanently. Okay, that brings me to the end of the questions. So, almost two hours. Very well chosen. Um, and Bobby as always has something interesting to say and add. The Roman Empire was greater, longer in time scale and had much more influence compared to um, so Bobby has his own scale. It looks like it would drop the Mongol Empire, the top three powerful, etc. What's your top empire, Bobby? Um, the Mongols had 100 years bit of reach. Euro Roman Empire lasted way longer, had much more of an impact. Yeah, you can you can argue this until the the uh Yeah, until forever essentially. M1 says, should men get married in today's day and age? Is it better to just live single and die childless? The system is empty, man. Men, kids are expensive. The juice isn't worth the squeeze. Excuse me, what? Uh I think you should you should get married. the system. Don't let the system defeat you. Don't let the system kill you. Find the right person. Get married. And yeah, I I am totally pro marriage. I think that people should get married. People should get married early before the before the age of 25. You should have kids as soon as possible. And lots of people will disagree with me because they are geniuses, but whatever. That's my opinion. Because if you want to if you do want to have kids someday and if you wait until you're 40 years old to have kids, then you're going to have to be strong and active and energetic until at least you until you're at least 60, right? Until the kid is 20. And your responsibility isn't over by the by the time your kid is 18 or 20. A person matures by the time they're 40. Believe me. Okay? You're not mature until you reach at least 40 years of age. until the time you need your parents to take care of you in some way or the other. Uh so the best thing is to the best thing to do is to marry as soon as possible and have kids as soon as possible and and be done with it. And yeah, you are right that the system is is very anti-man. That's true. I agree with you. And today the system is such that having a single kid is super expensive. Having two is like prohibitive. Uh so yeah the system is is is is constructed architected in such a way that it it it's terrible to have kids. It's very difficult to have kids. It's very expensive to have kids. And that's why you will see that the birth rates and total fertility rates are going down all across the world. They want a population collapse to happen and it's happening. Uh but overall I would say that you know it's very important for everybody to have kids to to get married to have a good partner in life because eventually you're going to end up all lonely otherwise and it's not good. Okay. All right. Uh Amisha says, "How many solar systems are present in the Milky Way galaxy?" I think I don't remember. 10 billion. 10 trillion. Not trillion. No, I think several billion stars. I don't remember right now. Let's quickly do a Google search. How many stars in the Milky Way? Milky Way, I think it's 10 billion or so. Okay. 100 to 400 billion stars. Uh yeah, so that's the number. Okay. And uh if that's the number and if each star is a solar system, well then you have it 100 to 400 billion solar systems in the Milky Way because we know that most stars have planets. We know that by now. So uh geopolitical dub says does China really think about Ric or it's just a statement? Look, if you look at that, people don't change, right? People don't change. So, if you want to know what somebody really is like, just look at their track record past 10, 20 years. Have has China ever wanted RAC to become a thing? Have they ever taken it seriously? They've never taken it seriously. They've always been the spoiler. They've always come in the way of RA becoming a thing of RC becoming a viable global coalition that can be geopolitically viable and and impactful. China has always played the spoiler spoiler role. Do you think they'll suddenly change some one fine morning and now they'll say, you know what, let's make RA happen. No, they won't. They won't. China will will always be the spoiler when it comes to RA. So, I don't trust the Chinese. Nope. It's just words, empty words, blah blah blah. Okay. Um, U says, "How are your people from Ubu Mua?" Well, they're quite far away, so it takes time to communicate with them. You know, there's a lag, but they're doing all right, and they're hoping that we don't launch a rescue mission because they would like to return to wherever they came from. Okay. Favorite character from Friends says Jot Riani. Uh Friends. I've seen a few of those episodes. It's pretty fun, harmless nonsense mostly. Favorite character. There were five of them, right? Joey was the funniest of the lot. Joey, how you doing? And Rachel. Phoebe was fun. The the smelly cat singer. I think either Phoebe or or or or Joey or who's it who's Rachel, Monica or Yeah. Okay, let's maybe take um a couple more questions. Um anything interesting you guys want to ask me? Ball Boys says your favorite sitcom? I've seen a lot. I I like sitcoms that make me laugh, you know, and I don't want to know the whole backstory. I just want to watch an episode and it should be funny enough. Maybe two and a half men. Uh Bobby says, "What about Chandler?" Thank you for reminding me of Chandler. Chandler probably. It's Chandler. Yeah, late late Chandler who the actor passed away a few some time ago. Yeah, he he probably was the best character probably. Yeah. Uh, Mleven says, "Bro, forgot about Chandler." Uh, thank you for reminding me. Chandler was probably the best character. I agree. Okay. Okay. Park says, "What's up with your personal life?" Well, this is not a question. This is not a show about my personal life, so we will not discuss that here. Okay. Do we have any interesting questions? Uh, Ou says, "Water fast." I mean, look at me. Do I look like I'm water fasting right now? Uh, Latangi Shures says, "Please increase the per week shows nowadays per week to right now only two." Yeah. Geio strategy. And look, some people will argue that quality quantity has a quality of its own. I mean, after all, Joseph Stalin said that. So when you talk about quantity having a quality of its own, you bring that argument into play. When your quality is low, okay, when the quality is low, let's say, let's say we're talking about tanks, you have tanks, but your tanks aren't great. Then let's massproduce 10,000 okay tanks. Then even though they're not great tanks, they'll be formidable as a force collectively. Maybe your aircraft are just third generation fighter planes, but you've got a thousand of those, well then they become a threat anyway. So when your quality isn't great, that's when you can increase your quantity and quantity acquires a quality of its own. But when your quality is high, when I have fifth generation fighter planes, stealth fighter planes, why do I need that quantity? So let's I I anyway I I take your point. Maybe once in a while I can have extra shows. Maybe once in a while if you guys want I can do a live stream with super chats per perhaps. I did the experiment for a while. Well, let's see. Uh Sri Raandraama says who do you support Tom or Jerry? I used to watch Tom and Jerry as a little kid. It was an infuriating show. I wanted Tom to win. I want to see an episode in which Tom eats Jerry because that's how that's the the that's the way nature is supposed to be, right? I would like to see Tom eat Jerry one of these days. Tom is a cat. Jerry's a mouse. Come on. And Jerry wins all the time. Come on. That's that's it's not fair. Bookshelf tour. You know what? I'll do it next week. But I won't do it standing here with the bookshelf. I'll take a bunch of books, put them on a desk, and maybe I'll do multiple episodes. Maybe 10 books in one episode, and I I can do a whole series of them because I've forgot so many books. I've got a lot of those. You know what? Next week, I I'll put up one of these episodes. I'll sit on on my podcast desk that you've seen and I'll put up maybe we'll we'll talk about 10 15 books and we can do I don't know many episodes that way. So, sure. [Music] McLevin says, "Can you suggest some toxic masculinity movies like Rambo, The Good, The Bad, The Ugly, etc. Predator, Arnold Schwarzenegger?" Die Hard. Yeah, Die Hard with a vengeance. Um, The Terminator, Kunan the Barbarian, all toxic masculinity movies. There was this great phase in the 1980s where you had these unabashed masculine movies, action movies, but there was no lecturing of the audience, no vocism or or or or what is it? Liberalism or nonsense. It was just factual straightforward, you know, action movies. I am not somebody who is a huge fan of action movies, but some of these movies were great. The Predator was great. Terminator, Terminator 2 was great. Um, and like I said, the Die Hard series were good and so on. So, the good, the bad, and the ugly is from the 1960s. It's a spaghetti western. Sergio Leon, outstanding. It's not a toxic masculinity movie. It's a very gritty movie. Uh, and one of the greatest movies of all time, of course. So, yeah, that's what I can remember. I'm sure there are many more, but yeah, if you ask me who the main actors are, it's Silver Sister Stone with the Rocky series and Rambo series. Um, it's Arnold Schwarzenegger, of course, and the movies he made and Bruce Willis to some extent. Yeah. Okay. The Mummy is not a toxic masculinity movie. It's not that sort of action movie. It's a kids movie. It's a kids movie. Are you kidding me? You've got to watch the 1980s movies. That's the real stuff. Uh, Reacher. Reacher. I saw the I think the first season possibly of Reacher. It was kind of good. I think they've ruined I I hear they've ruined the second season. So, um, okay, I'm going to end it over here. So, thank you so much everybody for all the questions. It was fun as always and I look forward to seeing you in the next live stream which hopefully happens as soon as I can make it happen. And do let me know in the comments below if you would like me to do maybe more more super chat live streams. I could do that. I don't mind doing that. One live stream per week from in which I take questions from the comments so that the standards stay up and then one one super chat live stream in case you want to ask all kinds of random questions. I'll take those. Let me know in the comments below. Thank you so much for watching. Keep asking questions. Keep raising your standards. Keep learning and I'll see you very soon. Thank you. Bye-bye.